
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
The University of Michigan


July 2000 - June 2001




JULY MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 13, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Horning, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present
were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Brandon arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Regent Deitch arrived at
2:00 p.m.; Regent Maynard was absent.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and welcomed Chancellor Little to
the University and to his first Regents' Meeting. He then reported that the board of
directors of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) had just
announced that Vice President Ulaby would be the recipient of its 2001 Electromagnetics
Award. This is the highest international award bestowed by this organization in
recognition of scholarly and educational contributions to theoretical and applied
electromagnetics.
Resolution in Honor of Bob Kalmbach
Regent Horning called Mr. Robert Kalmbach to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate Bob
Kalmbach on his retirement and express their deep gratitude for his creativity,
loyalty, and dedicated service spanningforty-five years.
Bob's love of people and for Michigan is evident in the thousands of
photographs he has taken as the University's official photographer, from class
reunions and athletic contests to portraits of renowned scholars and performers,
American presidents, and royalty.
He understands Michigan n ways few of us do, including where to
find the best rooftop views. With his trained eye, timing, and technical skills,
Bob masterfully and artistically presents the complexity of the University of
Michigan, bringing into sharp focus its exuberance and beauty.   His
photographs, which have delighted audiences for decades, offer a legacy for
fixture generations interested in learning about life at the University in the last
half of the twentieth century.
Always affable, gracious, and kind, Bob is one of the University's best
known and beloved staff members.


1




July Meeting, 2000


The Regents thank you, Bob Kalmbach, for memorializing the life of
the University. You have brightened our campus publications and our public
spaces with your photographs, and our lives with your friendship, and we wish
you health and happiness as you retire from the University of Michigan.
A standing ovation followed, after which Mr. Kalmbach commented that he was
honored to have received the resolution and thanked the Regents and administrators he
had worked with over the years for their friendship and cooperation.
Introductory Comments - 2000-2001 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
President Bollinger made note of the massive effort required on the part of many
individuals from across the University to produce the annual University budgets.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the University of Michigan is in
excellent financial health, as judged by the responses to the following three questions:
Is the University effectively tracking and managing its financial performance? Is it
protecting the balance sheet as defined by the relationship of current assets to current
liabilities, the mix and quality of assets, and the size and nature of liabilities? Do the
proposed operating budgets ensure the maintenance of the University's overall financial
health?
He noted that the University has recently undergone total replacement of
management information systems and has received an unqualified audit opinion
following successful replacement of the financial system and rotation of auditors. The
University continues to focus on improvements in financial control and compliance. He
also noted that the close collegiality and collaboration among the provost, CFO, and
executive vice president for medical affairs greatly benefits the University's financial
management.
Executive Vice President Kasdin displayed a chart depicting the mix of the
University's $7.9 billion in assets in FY 2000. These include investments (65%),
physical properties (depreciation value) (27%), receivables (7%), and other (1%). The
total liabilities ($1.4 billion) include notes and bonds payable (51%); present value of
insurance claims (14%); accounts, trade settlements, and interest payable (18%),
accrued compensation (8%), and other (9%).
To evaluate the FY 2000-2001 budgets, Executive Vice President Kasdin
suggested the following considerations: whether diverse revenue sources are being
used; whether there is a demonstrated ability to control costs; whether there is adequate
maintenance of physical properties; and how debt is utilized. He noted that over the
past 20 years, the percentage of revenue from state appropriation has declined from 21%
to 12%, and the health system has grown from 30% of the revenue base to 42%.
Excluding the health system, the percentage of revenue from state appropriation
has declined from 31% in 1981-82 to 21% for 2000-01. Investment income has grown
from 4% to 6%; however, he noted that the schools against which the University is
competing for students and faculty receive close to 30% of their revenue from their
endowments.


2




July Meeting, 2000


Regarding voluntary support, Vice President Feagin observed that FY 2000 was a
record year for giving, with gifts totaling $226 million. The number of individual
donors increased to 104,000, indicating broad-based support for the University.
Additionally, there were more large gifts in FY 2000. She noted that 70% of the gift
total was from individuals, as opposed to 62% the previous year and 50% ten years ago.
In the area of expenditures (excluding the Health System), Executive Vice
President Kasdin noted that almost 60% of expenditures are in the areas of salaries and
wages (46%) and staff benefits (12%).  As an example of efficiencies that are
continually being sought in staffing, he reported that over the past few years the number
of accidents resulting in time lost has decreased to 60% due to an increased focus on
workplace safety and has created cost-savings due to a decreased need for temporary
workers. This, combined with an increased emphasis on worker rehabilitation, has
resulted in a savings of $5 million per year in workers' compensation premiums as
compared to the premium rate in 1995. He also pointed out savings that have occurred
through the use of improved technology and employee training, which reduces the need
to increase staffing despite increases in the volume of activity.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that utilities expenses in the General
Fund are being reduced by $2.7 million for FY 2000-01 and further savings are
expected to accrue due to other measures being implemented in the coming year. He
noted that the University is taking a number of steps to reduce supplies expenses,
resulting in fewer vendor complaints about payment delays and more efficient use of
staff time. Prime vendor contracts and resale agreements, among other measures, are
yielding significant savings in procurement costs, and additional improvements are
being planned.
He displayed a chart illustrating the University's success in ensuring that
expenditure levels do not exceed budgeted amounts. He noted that new construction
has returned to the modest levels of the early 1990s, following extensive growth from
1996-1998. Within the Hospitals and Health Centers, he pointed out that except for
1997, no money has been spent on new facilities since 1990. With respect to renewal of
the existing physical plant, he noted that for many years more money has been spent on
rehabilitation of existing facilities than on new construction. Executive Vice President
Kasdin noted that there will be a growing number of cranes on campus as construction
activity is about to increase.
Regarding liabilities, Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the
University has $648 million in debt outstanding, enjoys a strong credit rating, has a
consistent debt management policy, and has an aggressive interest expense management
program.
Executive Vice President Kasdin concluded that the financial impact of the
proposed budget is consistent with maintaining the University's overall financial health.
Quoting from Moody's Investment Service, he noted that the University has a
"strengthening... balance sheet, highlighted by its successful fundraising and
conservative debt strategy, as well as favorable operating performance, including the
University's health care operations."


3




July Meeting, 2000


Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Provost Cantor thanked staff in her office and in the Office of Budget and Planning
for their efforts in assembling the budget. She displayed a chart indicating a total
proposed current funds budget for all three campuses of $3.533 billion in revenues and
$3.526 billion in expenses. As was the case last year, she noted that the budget is built on
ongoing and evolving collaboration between the state and the University, which allows
tuition increases to be kept at low levels. She indicated that the University anticipates a
state appropriation increase of 5.7% based on the recommendation of a house-senate
conference committee, and that it is expected that this estimate will be formally approved
by the legislature and signed by the governor in September.
Provost Cantor pointed out that there is a negative correlation between the level of
state appropriation and the growth in tuition. She noted that since 1996 tuition has
grown at a much more modest rate than during the previous decade due to the
partnership being developed with the state.
Provost Cantor reviewed the underlying assumptions of a great public research
university: a superb faculty and staff; shared public culture; and the ability to expand
the learning venues outside of classroom walls and into the community. The proposed
budget, she noted, is built on five imperatives: exploration as broadly as possible in
time and space across all versions of human ideas; providing an education that prepares
students for an increasingly complex and interconnected world; preservation of
intellectual and cultural treasures; providing opportunities for experiencing the
University's offerings to as broad a group of students, faculty, staff, and community
members as possible; and modeling the notion of character (i.e., what it means to be a
citizen of the world beyond the campus).
Provost Cantor described the benefits of large scale and connectivity of ideas as
well as electronic media that are inherent in great research universities. She noted that
there are myriad examples across the institution of the creative connections between
research and teaching.  These examples are often interdisciplinary, stretch the
boundaries of an area of inquiry, and involve technology that allows perception of
things that otherwise could not be immediately comprehended. These ideas are then
brought forward into the larger world. She listed a number of examples that illustrate
the connectivity between research and teaching, including biomedical engineering, the
Life Sciences undergraduate curriculum, the Arts of Citizenship Program, and Project
Community.
As an illustration of scale and connectivity in action, Provost Cantor reviewed the
work of Professor Susan Alcock, who was recently awarded a MacArthur Foundation
Fellowship, and whose interests span the fields of archaeology, history, anthropology,
landscape architecture, and classics.
Integral to the success of the work of faculty such as Professor Alcock, Provost
Cantor noted, are a number of cost drivers, including innovation and conservation;
retention of faculty and staff; information technology costs; the upcoming development
campaign; increased compliance costs; and the size and age of the campus. The
recommended General Fund revenue increase of 5.7% ($53.0 million) will be expended


4




July Meeting, 2000


on increased costs related to the presence of additional students and increases in indirect
costs for research ($16.7 million) plus increases deriving from operating cost increases
for financial aid, faculty and staff salary increases, and 3% growth in non-salary costs
($35.1 million). The total General Fund expenditure increase for increased activity plus
inflation totals $51.8 million (5.6%).
Provost Cantor emphasized that the budget management philosophy by necessity
involves substantial internal reallocation, reduction, and fund raising to achieve program
enhancements. Examples of cost reduction include substantial reductions in utilities
costs that have been achieved by the Plant Department as well as internal reallocations
done by academic units such as the College of Engineering, the College of LS&A, and
other schools and colleges. These efforts compliment the fundraising efforts directed
towards new program enhancements.
Provost Cantor displayed a chart detailing the recommended General Fund Budget
for FY 00-01 of $981.4 million. It includes an increase of 2.8% for resident and
nonresident undergraduate tuition and 3% for most of the graduate and professional
programs, and Provost Cantor pointed out that the percentage increase adjusted for
inflation has been decreasing in recent years. Compared to other Big Ten universities,
the University's tuition and fee cost increases for 2000-01 are among the lowest.
In closing, Provost Cantor commented that the economic return of higher
education is the highest it has been in decades. In addition, she pointed out that
education is the key to effective engagement in an increasingly complex world and that
it is the best universities, such as the University of Michigan, that can provide the
highest returns of all by building on their scale and connectivity. She concluded that the
citizens of Michigan are depending on the University of Michigan to provide an
opportunity whereby people can use their minds to connect to other people and to build
a thoughtful world.
Regent Newman commented that though there is every reason to be pleased with
the largess of the state legislature, the University needs to remain cognizant that funding
can be very unstable. Therefore it needs to work harder at achieving efficiencies and
controlling costs. She noted that revenues are up by 5.52% but expenditures were
increasing by 6.62% and that a decrease in centrally-awarded financial aid appeared to
be paying for the increased expenditures. She asked why the University was spending
more on expenses and less on financial aid relative to its history.
Provost Cantor responded that expenditures are not higher than revenues in the
proposed budget; both will equal 5.71%. Likewise, the undergraduate financial aid
budget has not been reduced; it always increases by the same amount as undergraduate
tuition, which in FY 2001 will be 2.8%. She observed that the total budget is
completely balanced and that the University is proud of its ability to meet the
demonstrated financial need of its resident undergraduate students.
Regent Newman commented that the University could do a better job of helping
students with financial aid in a good year such as this.
Regent White observed that it is remarkable that the University is both committed
and able to meet the financial needs of instate students, and that is why the increase in
the financial aid budget is tied to the increase in tuition.


5




July Meeting, 2000


Regent McGowan asked for some examples of how decisions are arrived at for
internal reallocation.  Provost Cantor described how the dean of the College of
Engineering carried out a strategic planning initiative over a number of months to build
consensus within the faculty that the kinds of reallocation he envisioned with regard to
building the computer science department would be worth doing. Agreement had to be
reached regarding shifts in teaching assignments, in internal allocation of new faculty
positions, and in the budget's focus on computer science at the expense of other
programs. Consensus on this area as a focus of fundraising also had to be achieved. A
similar process occurs regularly within the College of LS&A as new hires are made to
fill open positions. Each opening is scrutinized to determine where within the college
the position should be allocated. This is always a multi-year decision, and positions are
not always replaced in the department in which the opening occurred.
Regent Deitch complimented Provost Cantor, her staff, and the entire University
leadership team on the budget. He noted that it is responsible and disciplined within the
context of the mission of the University, which is different from that of a corporation
seeking to maximize profits for its shareholders.
Regent Newman commented that the University should be more fiscally
conservative. She noted that the University is in the business of educating students and
that if it spends too much money and is not affordable for students, it will go out of
business. She concluded that it is a good budget and she would vote for it if she were
going to be present for the vote, noting that her concerns were about preparing for the
future and spending more than is taken in.
Regent McGowan observed that Regents have had ample opportunity during the
past month to discuss the budget with the provost. Provost Cantor and Executive Vice
President Kasdin emphasized that it is a balanced budget. Regent White reiterated that
the University is keeping its commitment to meet the unmet financial needs of instate
undergraduate students.
President Bollinger commented that it is a source of pride for his administration
that three of the past four budgets have involved tuition increases of under three percent.
He also pointed out that it is generally understood that tuition only covers part of the
cost of providing education at a public university.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget and
Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Little commented that he was pleased to be here and to begin his
relationship with the University. He also thanked colleagues at the Dearborn campus for
their work in preparing the budget. Chancellor Little observed that the mission of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn is to provide high quality education to meet the needs of
the citizens of southeast Michigan; to establish and enhance strong relations with all facets
of the community; and to offer support and encouragement for the pursuit of active
scholarship on the part of faculty and students. He noted that accessibility and diversity
are leading priorities that also guided the construction of the budget.
Chancellor Little said that the campus is proud of the quality education it has been
able to provide with the relatively modest size of its operating budget. He described the
budget process and noted that a goal in the coming year is to make it an even more


6




July Meeting, 2000


collaborative process through which voices from all segments of the campus community
can be more systematically incorporated. The budget assumes a 7% increase in state
appropriation and a 3% increase in resident undergraduate tuition. For competitive
reasons, however, in most cases non-resident tuition will not increase, and graduate
tuition in the School of Education will decrease by over 23%.
Chancellor Little noted that highlights of the budget include increases to reflect
operating costs for the new CASL building; a debt service increase to fund field house
renovations; and a 4% increase in the faculty and staff merit pool.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Mestas introduced the provost and acting vice chancellor for
administration and thanked them for their efforts in preparing the budget. He described
the budget preparation process and noted that attempts were made to open it up internally
as much as possible to demystify the process and avoid misconceptions. There were open
hearings during which anyone who wished could voice an opinion about the budget.
Budget assumptions include a state appropriations increase of 7% and a tuition and
fee increase of 3%. Four priorities were established in drafting the budget: maintain
affordable tuition and fees; increase the competitiveness of faculty and staff salaries;
provide support for the technology plan; and continue to move ongoing expenditures
from contingency to base funds. He noted that these priorities have been met by
(respectively) keeping the tuition and fee increase below the level of inflation;
establishing a 5% merit package for faculty and staff-the largest in a decade-and
initiating a study of equity salary issues; increasing the technology fee and using
available state funds; and by internal reallocation.
Chancellor Mestas noted that this was the first time he had experienced the budget
process with the state legislature and executive branch and that he was "amazed and
delighted" by how smooth the process was and by the level of support received from
both branches of the legislature and from both political parties.
2000-2001 University Health Service Fee
Interim Vice President Harper praised the work of Interim UHS Director Robert
Winfield and the Health Service staff and announced that the Health Service is requesting
a 2.8% fee increase. This will fund a salary merit program and general costs of providing
preventive services, campus public health activities, and medical care to students.
Interim Vice President Harper announced that in conjunction with the Office of the
Provost, the University Health Service is currently undertaking an executive review of
health service funding, which includes an analysis of funding strategies of 11 university
health services across the country. The results of the study, which will be available in
the fall, will guide a re-examination of the funding structure for the University Health
Service.


7




July Meeting, 2000


2000-01 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
Interim Vice President Harper noted that no fee increases are being requested for
Michigan Student Assembly, Student Legal Services, and school/college governments for
the 2000-01 fiscal year.
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) Strategic Plan
President Bollinger commented that under Executive Vice President Omenn' s
leadership, the health system had recently gone through a strategic planning process.
Executive Vice President Omenn thanked the many individuals in the health
system who had participated in the strategic planning process. He introduced Doug
Strong, associate vice president for finance and strategy, and Richard Coffey, director of
management engineering within the health system.
Executive Vice President Omenn reviewed the goals of the strategic planning
process and described the mission statement that developed from the process, which is
"to improve the health of patients, populations, and communities through excellence in
education, patient care, community service, research and technology development, and
leadership activities in Michigan, nationally, and internationally." He noted that the
most important values identified as a result of the planning process are creativity and
innovation.  Among the planning principles were to maximize integration and
cooperation across the health system; design flexibility into organizations, buildings,
systems, and relationships; identify, focus on, and invest in core competencies to
develop competitive advantages and form partnerships, affiliations, or outsource for
other services and capabilities; create competitive edge and market distinction through
innovations and breakthroughs; take all necessary actions to keep UMHS financially
strong; improve cost effectiveness across all mission elements; raise the quality bar; and
make strategic investments from UMHS reserves.
Executive Vice President Omenn reviewed expected national trends for the next
ten years in each area of the UMHS mission: patient care and insurance, education, and
research and technology transfer. These were distilled into the UMHS vision statement:
"By 2005, the UM Health System (UMHS) will have measurably enhanced the
leadership reputation of each element of the Health System mission. Each mission
element will be recognized based on national benchmark comparisons.... UMHS will be
increasingly competitive in recruiting faculty, house officers, and students, [and will be
recognized regionally as] the health care provider of choice, the employer of choice, and
a culturally sensitive community partner. M-Care will be rated among the best managed
care organizations in the country."
The key themes that emerged from the strategic planning process, he noted, were
(1) creativity, innovation, and integration; (2) metrics for all aspects of operational and
financial performance; and (3) greater satisfaction of patients, families, referring
physicians, faculty, staff, students, and other external customers.
Executive Vice President Omenn highlighted ten key initiatives and
implementation actions to be undertaken as a result of the strategic planning process:
(1) continue improving service to patients and families; (2) assure that clinical programs


8




July Meeting, 2000


and M-Care remain competitive and grow to sustain positive operating margin, however
tough the payment world; (3) expand development of comprehensive care centers into
such areas as cardiovascular, transplantation, depression, and ophthalmology; (4) ensure
intensive use of existing facilities; (5) enhance Medical School ranking in research; (6)
Improve ability to attract, develop, and retain outstanding faculty, staff, and students; (7)
Enhance UMHS leadership reputation in education; (8) streamline decision-making
processes; (9) intensify the use of performance metrics by a much broader array of
UMHS leaders; and (10) significantly increase philanthropic support for the Medical
School and Hospitals and Health Centers.
Executive Vice President Omenn concluded that the strategic plan will be
important in everything the Hospitals and Health Centers do, including assessing
proposals and allocating resources for operations improvement plans, operating budgets,
investments and capital budgets; faculty and staff recruitment; space allocations; and
integration of services and resources across UMHS.
Proposed FY 2001 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating
Budget
Executive Vice President Omenn submitted for approval the proposed FY 2001
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget. He noted that the
FY 2000 budget yielded a margin for operations of $5.0 million. The proposed FY 2001
budget calls for total operating revenues of $887.1 million, total expenses of $869.2
million, and an operating margin of 2% ($17.9 million). He noted that the proposed FY
2001 budget includes a reduction of over $30 million from the cost structure and the
elimination of 35 positions.
FY 2000-2001 Athletic Department Operating Budget
President Bollinger called on Mr. William Martin, interim athletic director. Mr.
Martin reported that the Athletic Department would be completing the fiscal year in a
deficit situation. He reported that the mission of the department is to be among the top
five contestants in the national rankings for the Sears Cup, and that it has achieved this
goal in 1999-00 with a ranking of three.
Mr. Martin noted that he had been a member of the Athletic Department Financial
Advisory Committee formed by President Bollinger in 1999. One of the Committee's
recommendations was to develop a comprehensive capital plan that schedules the
rehabilitation of the physical plant and sets aside funding in an annual operating budget.
He reported that this process has been started by surveying all Athletic Department
buildings for facility needs, which identified $7 million in deferred maintenance, not
including Michigan Stadium or Crisler Arena.
The second recommendation was to deliver a balanced budget by controlling
expenses and becoming less dependent upon nonrecurring revenue events. New
programs, including new sports, should be examined to ensure operational funding in
advance. The third recommendation was for the department to move toward utilization
of University systems; this process is well underway. The final recommendation was
for the department to energize its development efforts.


9




July Meeting, 2000


Reviewing the FY 99-00 budget, Mr. Martin noted that an operating surplus of
$880,000 had been budgeted, but it turned out that there was a $2.6 million deficit.
Revenue shortfalls occurred in the default of a radio contract ($2.0 million); a decrease
in licensing royalties from what had been projected ($650,000); and a decrease in annual
donations ($300,000). Total expenses, however, are projected to be within 1% of the
budget.
For FY 00-01 revenues, the department projects a continued decline in licensing
royalties of 28% (from $2.8 million to $2 million). Regent Newman complimented Mr.
Martin and his staff on the clarity of the budget information. She asked what causes the
decrease in licensing revenues.  Mr. Martin responded that this is a nationwide
phenomenon due to fashion trends among young people to whom the items are targeted.
Regarding ticket revenues for FY 00-01, Mr. Martin said that no changes are
budgeted for football and hockey tickets, but increases are planned for basketball. The
budget also assumes no new apparel or shoe contracts.
Expense increases in FY 00-01 will occur due to the addition of women's water
polo and men's soccer ($600,000), increased travel costs ($400,000), and increased
compensation costs ($970,000, including merit pay increase, market adjustments, and
additional staff). Mr. Martin noted that three additional development staff will be
added, pursuant to the recommendation of the Financial Advisory Committee, in order
to increase the level of income from donations. Other expense increases in FY 2000-01
will be due to increases in grants-in-aid ($255,000); facilities deferred maintenance
costs ($200,000); debt service ($150,000); and post season expenses ($480,000).
Mr. Martin then reviewed what specific steps will be taken to deliver a balanced
budget in FY 2001-02. This will be accomplished by evaluating and implementing a
new football pricing plan after building a case and achieving buy-in from all of the
stakeholders. He displayed a chart indicating that the University is at the bottom when
compared to its top football competitors in ticket prices and donation levels. He also
pointed out that other schools have premium pricing programs and tie donations to
ticket availability and noted that if Michigan were to institute an annual $100 seat
licensing fee to all season ticket holders, it would generate $6.6 million and eliminate
the deficit.
Additional balcony seating for Yost Arena is also planned for 2001-02 for which a
minimum donation will be required. This will have a payback period of less than three
years and thereafter will add annual revenues of $500,000 to $600,000. Adding seating
to Michigan Stadium in the form of a new press box will also be considered, as will
possible new revenue sources from such areas as facility rentals and advertising. A
five-year financial plan, including operating and capital needs, will be developed and
implemented.
Mr. Martin said that consideration is being given to adding an extra pre-season
football home game in Fall 2001. Revenue from this event would go into facilities, as
opposed to operations.
Mr. Martin reviewed long-term challenges faced by the department. These include
facility infrastructure renovation needs of $20-25 million, which would be funded by
donations and possibly by additional football seating. He observed that the department


10




July Meeting, 2000


carries a relatively modest debt load and has an endowment fund of $17 million and a
quasi-endowment fund of $19 million, of which only $9 million is in unrestricted
reserves. Approval of the budget will reduce the $9 million to $5 million in unrestricted
reserves.
Regent Newman clarified that the transfer from the quasi-endowment fund and
from the University, which total $7 million, would be used to cover the deficit for
2000-01, and that if the Nike contract were still in effect there would have been
additional revenues of $1.3 million. Regent Newman requested that the president
investigate whether the reason for the termination of the Nike contract negotiations was
due to the University's becoming a member of the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC).
President Bollinger stated that Nike's reasons for not renewing the contract were
unknown. He noted that the University's provisional membership in the WRC occurred
after broad review by a faculty/student/staff committee and that over 50 other
universities had also joined the consortium on a provisional basis. These universities
believe there are serious issues involving potential human rights problems in the
manufacture of their own goods that should be of concern. It is important, he noted, for
the University to articulate its values and principles as a university and join any
reasonable efforts to monitor the manufacturing process as part of a collective group
involving universities and industries. He said that he had attached clear conditions to
the University's joining the WRC, including that it be inclusive of industry. He said
that the University also needs to give serious consideration to joining the Fair Labor
Association as well. President Bollinger noted that there is an advisory committee
studying these issues and at the same time the Athletic Department is reviewing a
number of possibilities for apparel contracts.
Regent Newman stated that she is only interested in the impact of the University's
membership in the WRC on Athletic Department revenues. She observed that it is odd
to have joined an organization that hasn't established a lot of policies yet because one
should know what an organization stands for prior to joining it.
Regent Horning noted that there are a number of other institutions who belong to
the WRC and who also have contracts with Nike, and this creates confusion. He said he
wants to move forward and study the issues laid out by Mr. Martin. Finally, he stated
that his comment at the last Regents Meeting that stadium sky boxes should be looked
at as a potential source of new revenue was not meant to indicate he supported the idea;
just that it be considered as one of a number of possible means of enhancing revenue.
Regent Taylor commented that joining an organization that has not yet formulated
all of its procedures and policies provides an opportunity to play a role in shaping these
policies. He observed that it is wise not to rely on royalties as part of the base budget.
Regent Deitch commented that Mr. Martin had presented a broad, detailed
overview of the Athletic Department's budget situation. He said that nobody knows
what Nike's motivations were for withdrawing from licensing negotiations, and it may
have had nothing to do with the University's membership in the WRC. He also pointed
out that the radio contract that resulted in a $2 million revenue loss had been entered
into in good faith a number of years ago, and there would have been no way to predict
how it would have turned out.


11




July Meeting, 2000


Regarding football ticket prices, Regent Deitch observed that these tickets are
underpriced and recalled that past suggestions for price increases have been met with
criticism on the part of the Regents. Overall, he commented that the University is
extraordinarily well-run financially. In the Athletic Department there have been years of
financial practices which were allowable because of the department's good fortunes.
Now that the situation has changed, Mr. Martin has brought the situation back on track
and the University owes him great thanks for having put the deficit in context and
showed that there is a clear path to restoring the department's financial health.
Regent Newman responded that if the reasons for the need for ticket price
increases are spelled out, she can accept it. She said the Regents have a responsibility to
ask questions and she is concerned about the loss of $1.3 million from the Nike contract
and the loss of licensing revenues.
Regent Horning commented that he would like to have the reasons for the need for
ticket price increases clearly explained. He noted that two years ago the Regents were
first told a ticket price increase would not be necessary and several months later were
told an increase would be necessary to pay for a deficit. In the current situation, he
agrees that it would be unreasonable to not consider a ticket price adjustment going
forward.
Regent Taylor requested that a plan be presented soon for developing a framework
for going forward and eliminating the deficit. President Bollinger agreed and noted that
it is important to remember that we have an outstanding athletic department although
there are clearly financial problems and problems related to the basketball program. We
have the means to address the financial problems, he noted, and complimented Mr.
Martin on the candid, straightforward manner in which he has brought these issues to
the fore.
Regent Brandon commented that Mr. Martin is to be commended for having the
courage to suggest significant change in a department which has previously been
reluctant to change. He noted that Mr. Martin has also done a good job of preparing the
community for a more realistic approach that the department will need to take in the
future, given the new financial realities.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 4:25 p.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals on the topics indicated: Gary Hann, alumnus, on civil
rights and constitutional rights violations; Marcia Federbush, citizen, on sex
discrimination in athletics on the part of the NCAA; Michael Edwards, president,
AFSCME Local 1583, on outsourcing at the University of Michigan Hospitals and unfair
labor practices; and Sara Chen, on the residency classification policy.
The Regents requested a report on the status of the AFSCME Local 1583 labor
contract issues raised by Mr. Edwards. They also requested reports on the residency
classification policy in general and on Ms. Chen's case in particular.
Motion to Meet in Non-Formal Session
Regent White read the following motion:


12




July Meeting, 2000


I move that we adjourn this formal session of the Regents and begin a
non-formal session, the purpose of which is to consider a personnel evaluation.
Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting then continued in non-formal session from 4:50 to 6:15 p.m.
Friday, July 14, 2000
The Regents convened at 8:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Newman was absent.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger announced that the University had won third place in the
1999-2000 Sears Directors' Cup ratings. He also commented on a number of recent
honors received by current and former faculty members and several other items of interest.
FY 2000-2001 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the revenue and expenditure operating budgets for FY 2000-2001.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget for FY 2000-01.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2000-01 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Ann Arbor FY 2000-01 student tuition and fee rates
as described in the Regents Communication.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the 2000-01 Dearborn Campus General Fund operating budget.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2000-01 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2000-01 student tuition and
fee rates.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Flint Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund operating budget.


13




July Meeting, 2000


Proposed Flint Campus FY 2000-01 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Flint Campus FY 2000-01 student tuition and fee rates as
described in the Regents Communication.
2000-01 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the following fee assessments for 2000-01: $5.69 per student per
term for MSA; $5.50 per student per term for SLS; and $1.50 per student per term for
school and college governments. All of these fees represent no change from 1999-00.
2000-01 University Health Service Fee
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a fee of $3.05 per student per term for the University Health
Service, a 2.8% increase.
Proposed FY 2001 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating
Budget
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed FY 2001 Hospitals and Health Centers operating
budget.
Purchasing Contract with Absolutely Karaoke
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Absolutely Karaoke. Because one of
the owners of Absolutely Karaoke, Julie Peterson, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the purchase contract will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and its Department of Arts and Programs at the Michigan Union and Absolutely
Karaoke.
2.   The terms of the contract are to provide karaoke performances weekly during the 27
weeks of the academic school year, beginning in July 2000 and ending in June 2002,
for a total not to exceed $12,000.00.
3.   Ms. Peterson's pecuniary interest arises by virtue of the fact that she is a 50% owner of
Absolutely Karaoke.
Amendment of Existing Lease with First Properties Associates
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to an existing lease between M-Care, Inc. and First
Properties Associates for property located at 2301 Commonwealth, Ann Arbor. Because
William C. Martin is both the sole limited partner of First Properties Associates and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and M-Care and
First Properties Associates.


14




July Meeting, 2000


2.   The service to be provided is an extension of an existing lease for five years, the
addition of 35,391 square feet of new space and the termination of 11,500 feet of
existing space. The additional space will be leased at a rate of $64,744 per month; the
space being terminated was leased at a rate of $51,248 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole limited partner of First Properties Associates.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Nanobiologics, LLC
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Nanobiologics, LLC. Regent Deitch announced that he would abstain from voting due to
a conflict of interest. The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Because the owners of the companies, James R. Baker, Jr., and Tarek Hamouda, are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Nanobiologics, LLC.
2.   Terms of the agreement include:
Field of use will encompass all fields. The grant will be an exclusive worldwide
license, with a right to grant sublicenses. The license fee will involve an initial
payment of $15,000 to $20,000* made by the end of the year 2000. These monies will
constitute partial reimbursement of current patent costs. Maintenance fees will be
$50,000 to $100,000* per year to be offset by research grant revenue. All remaining
current and future patent costs will be paid by Nanobiologics, LLC;
2-7%* equity is to be held by the University of Michigan in Nanobio;
Royalties will be 2-7%* on Net Sales of Products. The first approximately $200,000
in royalties would be offset by patent costs. Sublicensing royalties will be 50% of
Gross Sublicense Revenue;
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights
granted by the license;
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated under the
agreement;
*Final figures will be negotiated by the University's Technology Management Office
before a contractual agreement is concluded with Nanobio.
3.   Dr. James Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in the companies. He
has waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds received by the
University from Nanobiologics/Nanobio as a result of this license agreement.
Dr. Tarek Hamouda's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in the companies.
He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds received by the
University from Nanobiologics/Nanobio as a result of this license agreement.
Proposed Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mayukh Bhattacharya, Alejandro F. Gonzalez, Shriram Kulkarni, and Pinaki
Mazumder
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement between the University of Michigan and


15




July Meeting, 2000


Mayukh Bhattacharya, Alejandro F. Gonzalez, Shriram Kulkarni, and Pinaki Mazumder
regarding their invention "NMOS Negative Differential Resistance Circuits for
Prototyping RTD-CMOS Circuits" (TMO File #1764). Because each of the inventors is
also a University employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Mayukh Bhattacharya,
Alejandro F. Gonzalez, Shriram Kulkami, and Pinaki Mazumder.
2.   Reassignment agreement terms include:
Assignment of the University's interest in the title to the Inventors;
The inventors will seek patent protection and licensees without the University and will
reimburse the University for costs already incurred toward patent protection;
Royalties to the University of fifteen percent (15%) of license revenue received by the
Inventors;
Reservation by the University of a right to practice the invention for research and
educational purposes;
Term of the agreement is for the life of any patents that might result;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The Inventors' pecuniary interest arises from their receipt of potential returns from
ownership and licensing of the technology to industry. They will waive any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and MedEc, LLC
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
MedEc, LLC. Because Dee W. Edington is both an equity owner of MedEc and a
University of Michigan faculty member, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MedEc, LLC, a company
owned partially by Professor Dee W. Edington.
2.   Contract Terms include:
10% equity for the University on the same terms as the investors, non-dilutable until
$5,000,000 has been invested in the company;
1% royalties on gross revenues of MedEc, affiliates, distributors and market partners;
Minimum royalty payments of $50,000 in year 1 (2001), $75,000 in year 2, $100,000
in year 3, $200,000 in year 4 and $350,000 per year thereafter;
Sponsored research to the HMRC to improve the technology, with funding based on an
algorithm tied to MedEc business activity (minimum of $200,000, maximum of $2
million annually);
Milestones include $2,000,000 in funding at license signing, another $1,500,000 in
funding within 12 months, and being in full operation within 2 months with a full time
staff, offices and equipment;


16




July Meeting, 2000


A two-year exclusive services contract to MedEc for continuing HMRC processing
activities;
The University retains all rights necessary to continue to use and modify the programs
and to meet obligations under existing licenses;
No use of University facilities or assignment of University employees is obligated
under this agreement.
3.   Dee Edington's pecuniary interest arises from ownership in the company. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from the company.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the June
15-16, 2000 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents Report on
Non-competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, March 16, 2000 to June
15, 2000.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established, Research and
Other Activities for June, 2000. He noted that research expenditures for the first 11
months of FY 1999-2000 are approximately $43 million higher than the previous year, a
10% increase. Research awards are up by $200 million.
University of Michigan Health System.     Executive Vice President Omenn
announced that the Waggoner Lecture would be given on September 13 by the new
editor of the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn.     Chancellor Little reported that campus
building projects are proceeding on schedule. He noted that Professor Joseph Lund had
recently received an award for having published the best book on French colonial
history in 1999. He also reported that he had been warmly welcomed to campus since
arriving two weeks ago.
University of Michigan-Flint. No report was submitted.
Michigan Student Assembly. No report was submitted.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin noted that the final report of fiscal
year gift receipts would be submitted at the September meeting.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor highlighted the appointment of Karen L.
Wolff as dean of the School of Music, the reappointment of Steven Director as dean of
the College of Engineering, and the proposed change in title for Beverly Ulrich from
director to dean of the Division of Kinesiology. She requested the withdrawal of one of
the appointments for the associate dean for graduate programs and facilities in the
School of Dentistry, noting that this was a duplicate appointment.


17




July Meeting, 2000


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Allen, Richard L., Ph.D., Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Cameron, Kim S., Ph.D., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
School of Business Administration
Carlisle, Joanne F., Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education
Hoffmann, George, Ph.D., Associate Professor of French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Holl, Augustin Ferdinand Charles, Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
King, Patricia M., Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education
Lantz, Marilyn S., Ph.D., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, five-year term, and Professor of
Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000
Liker, Jeffrey K., Ph.D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering
Lynch, Deidre Shauna, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McKnight, Reginald, M.A., Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Mirel, Jeffrey E., Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education
Neuman, Susan B., Ed.D., Professor of Education, School of Education, July 1, 2000
Pollack, Martha E., Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Ruf, Christopher S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering
Schallert, Timothy, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Seiford, Lawrence M., Ph.D., Professor of Industrial Operations and Engineering and Chair of
Department of Industrial Operations and Engineering, five-year term, School of Engineering
Soundararajan, Kannan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Stanley, Jason, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Stone, C. Addison, Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education
Wineman, Jean, D.Arch., Associate Dean for Research, three-year term, and Professor of Architecture,
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Wolff, Karen L., Ph.D., Dean, School of Music, five-year term and Professor of Music, and Paul Boylan
Collegiate Professor of Music, five-year term, School of Music
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 2000 unless otherwise noted
Huffnagle, Gary B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School
McCullough, Malcolm, M.Arch., Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning and Associate Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
four-year term, January 1, 2001
Rubenstein, Rheta N., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Steel, Robert P., Ph.D., Professor of Organizational Behavior, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
three-year term
Stefanopoulou, Anna G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Director, Stephen W., Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering, College of Engineering,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
McClanahan, Susan, Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, UM-Dearborn,
February 3, 2000-February 2, 2002
McKinley, Donna L., Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2002
Meares, Henry O., Assistant Dean, School of Education, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2003
Palincsar, Annemarie Sullivan, Associate Dean, School of Education, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2002


18




July Meeting, 2000


Pintrich, Paul R., Associate Dean, School of Education, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Crocker, Keith, J., Waldo O. Hildebrand Professor of Risk Management and Insurance and Professor of
Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration, also appointed Professor of
Mathematics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Howard, June M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Associate Dean for Interdis ciplinary Initiatives,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Hull, Brooks, Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean, College of Arts,
Sciences and Letters, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Richards, Julia E., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, also
appointed Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, July 14, 2000
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001 unless otherwise indicated
Bagozzi, Richard P., Dwight F. Benton Professor of Marketing and Professor of Behavioral Science in
Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, outside teaching leave extended
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and William Davidson Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, duty off campus extended, September 1-December 21, 2000
Lin, Liwei, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, leave
of absence extended
Srolovitz, David J., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, and Edward D.
Campbell Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, leave of
absence extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Position s
Assistant Dean for Operations, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2000
Associate Dean for Administration and Graduate Programs, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000
Associate Dean for Graduate Programs and Facilities, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000
Establishing Professorship
Newman Family Professorship in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, August 1, 2000
Named Professorships
Agnes Inglis Collegiate Professorship in Psychology and Women's Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professorship in Paleontology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000
Rudolf Amheim Collegiate Professorship in Film Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000
Sylvia L. Thrupp Collegiate Professorship in Comparative History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Becker, Judith Omans, Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005


19




July Meeting, 2000


Boureau, Alain, Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law, Law School,
September 4-October 15, 2000
Bulkley, Jonathan W., Peter W. Wege Professor of Sustainable Systems, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Darwall, Stephen, John Dewey Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Duenyas, Izak, John Psarouthakis Research Professor of Manufacturing Management, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Fort, Timothy L., Bank One Corporation Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gurhan, Zeynep, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hanlon, Philip J., Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Herzog, Donald J., Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, Law School, five-year term, September 1, 2000
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Lovejoy, William S., Raymond T.J. Perring Family Professor in Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
MacKie-Mason, Jeffrey K., Arthur W. Burks Collegiate Professor of Information and Computer Science,
School of Information, five-year term, September 1, 2000
Markel, Howard, George E. Wantz, M.D., Professor in the History of Medicine,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2005
Milroy, Ann Leslie, Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Sloan, Richard G. Victor L. Bernard-Price WaterhouseCoopers LLP Collegiate Professor of Accounting,
School of Business, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Umezawa, Fumiko, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-May 31, 2001
Reappointment to Professorship
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., William Davidson Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Other Transactions
Feigal, Robert Jon, Associate Dean for Graduate Programs and Facilities, School of Dentistry, July 1,
2000-June 30, 2003
Godfrey, John B., Assistant Dean for International Education, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2005
Schmidt, Mary, Assistant Dean for Academic Programs and Student Affairs, School of Art and Design,
July 1, 2000-June 31, 2005
Ulrich, Beverly D., Director and Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure to Dean and Professor of
Kinesiology, with tenure, August 1, 2000-December 31, 2003
Interim Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president or the
provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such interim
appointments and/or changes as become necessary from August 1-31, 2000, to complete
the staffing for the fall term 2000.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Lafontaine, Francine, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Keith J. Crocker, term expired
Batra, Rajeev, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Thomas C. Kinnear, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
O'Connor, Carla A., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001, vice Stephen W. Raudenbush, leave of absence
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Northouse, Laurel L., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Violet H. Barkauskas, term expired


20




July Meeting, 2000


Pierce, Penny F., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Ann L. Whall, term expired
Board in Control o Intercollegiate Athletics
Stapleton, James F., reappointed July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committe e
DeYoung, Raymond K., June 1, 2000-May 31, 2002, vice Steven L. Yaffee, term expired
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
Johnson, Timothy R. B., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, vice Kevin Tremper, term expired
Personnel reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Mary L., M.A., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Attwood, John T.T., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Becker, Edward, R., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Black, Liza E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture Program and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Boluyt, Marvin J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Botti, Susan, M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
Brader, Ted, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Chen, Zhan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Chestek, Kenneth D., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 15, 2000-July 14, 2002
Collins, Peter A., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Consens, Flavia B., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Davis, Matthew M., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Ellis, John S., D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Flowers, Judith M., Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Galien, Patricia J., M.Ed., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Gottschalk, Barbara, M.B.A., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-August 31, 2000
Gueyser, Teresa N., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Hays, Jude C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Hilton, Louis R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Holther, Jean R., M.A., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Iniguez-Lluhi, Jorge A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
June 15, 2000-June 14, 2001
Jackson, David L., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Jedlicka, Julie A., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 24-August 19, 2000
Jorkos, Bobbi L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Kosch, Michelle A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Kurashige, Scott T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture Program and Assistant Professor of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003


21




July Meeting, 2000


Lassiter, Matthew D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Lebovic, Dan I., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Li, Lydia W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Luebbe, Christopher D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-May 31, 2000
Mapp, Anna K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Markham, Laura M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Matzger, Adam J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
McGee, Sean H., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Musolf, Karen L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 15, 2000-June 14, 2001
Ohye, Richard G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 10, 2000-June 30, 2001
Parker, Shandowyn L., B.S., Lecturer in Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Parent, Jack M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Perriguey, Gerald J., III, D.C., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Peters, Charles W., Ph.D., Clinical Professor II of Education, School of Education,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2005
Reo, Nicholas J., B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1-August 31, 2000
Reznik, Joseph, B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1-August 17, 2000
Sandall, Gary S., M.S., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
June 12, 2000-June 11, 2001
Sheridan, David M., M.F.A., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
Smith, Jeffery D., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Sutherland, Douglas S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Syed, Ibrahim N., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Tapio, Wayne W., M.A., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Taylor, G. Keith, M.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Vodosek, Markus, M.B.A., Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Ware, Margaret L., M.S., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Wooten, David B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Wooten, Lynn P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, School of Business Education,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
York, Cynthia N., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Younker, Betty A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Education), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brady, Janice, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Cooper, George H., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature also appointed Lecturer I in
Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Sciences, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2000
Hilton-Watson, Matthew A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Kay, Joshua B., from Lecturer to Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Sciences, and the Arts,
May 1, 2000-April 31, 2001


22




July Meeting, 2000


Langa, Kenneth M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
June 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Tsai, Wan Chong, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Cole, Theodore, M., Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 16, 2000-July 15,2001
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 1-June 30, 2000
Haessler, Robert W., Associate Professor Emeritus of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, June 1-August 31, 2000
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Milne, James S., Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1-July 31, 2000
Rogers, Leslie, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School and Professor Emeritus of
Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, June 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Alcock, Susan E., Associate Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Alwin, Duane F., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Astor, Ron A., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Assistant
Professor of Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Ayyangar, Rita N., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, personal leave, June 14-July 24, 2000
Bengtsson, Erling B., Professor of Music (Cello), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Bloom, David A., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, April 1-June 30, 2000
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
personal leave, July 1-December 31, 2000
Caminker, Evan H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, government service leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Carr, Deborah S., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Carson, John S., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Chang, Chia-Hao, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Countryman, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of American Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Croley, Steven P., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
D'Arms, John H., Gerald F. Else Professor of the Humanities, Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure,
and Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Dungan, Kelli A., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration, medical leave,
May 15-November 15, 2000
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Kirkland and Ellis Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, Robert B. Zajonc Professor of Psychology and Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Evans, Billy J., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside
teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 1999
Feeley-Harnik, Gillian, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


23




July Meeting, 2000


Foss, Merle L., Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, duty off campus,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001 and retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Goldstein, Richard A., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Grazier, Kyle L., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gross, Samuel R., Thomas G. and Mabel Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, outside teaching leave,
January 1- May 31, 2001
Guck, Marion A., Professor of Music (Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gulari, Erdogan, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1- December 31, 2000
Hanks, Carl T., Professor of Dentistry, Department of Oral Pathology, with tenure, School of Dentistry,
and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, phased
retirement, May 15, 2000-November 1, 2002
Harris, David R., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Hasuzawa, Tomoko, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Henderson, Andrea K., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Hills, Roderick M., Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, and
outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Holmes, Warren G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Israel, Ronen, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration, personal
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kales, Helen C., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, extended sick leave, April 22-June 4, 2000
Kriz, Igor, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Kuczkowski, Robert L., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 2000
Lewis, David L., Professor of Business History, with tenure, School of Business Administration, personal
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Lindner, Rudi P., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Logsdon, Craig D., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
July 1- December 31, 2000
Masson, Annette A., Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Meyer, John F., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Nagata, Donna K., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Neville-Andrews, John, Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Nwankwo, Ifeoma C., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Pernick, Martin S., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Romatowski, Jane A., Associate Dean and Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, retirement furlough, May 31, 2000-April 30, 2001
Root, Terry L., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment and Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Rosenberg, William G., Alfred G. Meyer Collegiate Professor of History and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Rush, Stephen J., Associate Professor of Music (Dance/Music Technology), with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Sampselle, Carolyn M., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor


24




July Meeting, 2000


of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Santamarina, Xiomara A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, and Assistant
Professor of Afroamerican Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Sheng, Bright, Associate Professor of Music (Composition/Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Simmons, Milagros S., Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, School of Public
Health, extended sick leave, June 1, 2000-February 28, 2005
Sinta, Donald J., Earl V. Moore Professor of Music and Professor of Music (Saxophone), with tenure,
School of Music, sabbatical leave, January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Smith, Richard C., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Smith, Robert L., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-May 31, 2000
Sparling, Peter D., Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Stoermer, Eugene F., Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, outside teaching assignment, June 18-July 22, 2000
VanDam, Raymond H., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Wang, Hom-Lay, Associate Professor of Dentistry, Department of Periodontics/Prevention and Geriatrics,
with tenure, School of Dentistry, sabbatical leave, April 1-September 30, 2000
Winter, David G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
McSparran, Katherine M.F., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as January
1-May 31, 2001)
Sension, Roseanne J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as September 1,
2000-May 31, 2001)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Ameri, Afshin, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Basu, Saugata, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 20, 2000
Belville, William D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Brennan, Beverly, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Bretz, Stacey L., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
April 30, 2000
Brown, Lorray S.C., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, June 30, 2000
Buttar, Amna B., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 15, 2000
Buysse, Christina A., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 30, 2000
Dobbs, John W., Associate Professor of Education, without tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 30, 2000
Graham, Linda M., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Guslits, Benjamin G., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Hawn, Mary T., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Holland, Katherine D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School, June 20, 2000
Katzan, Cynthia M., Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Killeen, Timothy L., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, June 30, 2000
Lenze, James S., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, June 30, 2000
Lown, Kenneth S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000


25




July Meeting, 2000


Michaud, Gregory F., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 15, 2000
Milanov, Rossen I., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), School of Music, May 31, 2000
Moline, Stephanie R., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Munro, Hamish M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Orlandi, Richard R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Riddell, James, IV, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Selinger, Peter, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Ship, Jonathan A., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2000
Singleton, Timothy P., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Strawderman, Robert L., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health,
August 18, 2000
Toth, Arpad, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Wira, Raymond L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 7, 2000
Retired
Barlow, Robin, Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, May 31, 2000
Comninou, Maria, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, June 30, 2000
D'Arms, John H., Gerald F. Else Professor of Humanities and Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure,
and Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Fakhouri, Hani, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2000
Farrand, William R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, June 30, 000
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Film and
Video Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Ringler, Daniel H., Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Risenhoover, Morris, Lecturer in Music, School of Music, July 31, 2000
Term Completed
Aldridge, Andrew M., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Bean, Michael A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2000
Button, Gregory V., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, May 31, 2000
Craig, Kathryn A., Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Crow, Thomas R., Theodore Roosevelt Professor of Ecosystem Management, without tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, June 30, 2000
El-Magharbel, Ibrahim, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Evans, Christine E., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Hind, Richard K., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor
of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Klarreich, Erica G., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Kloss, Raymond J., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Lark, Rebecca L., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Lee, Jeyseon, Lecturer III in Korean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Li, Lawrence, Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 26, 2000
Roberts, Mary W., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Sanchez, John E., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Superstein, Rosanne, Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 200
Steyer, Terrence E., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Wolbert, Jerome, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for five faculty
members.
Robin Barlow, Ph.D., professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.


26




July Meeting, 2000


Professor Barlow received his A.B. degree from Oxford University (England) in
1954 and his M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1958 and
1961, respectively. He joined the faculty as a lecturer, then assistant professor of
economics in 1961 and was promoted to associate professor in 1966 and professor in
1970. In 1961, Professor Barlow also became a faculty associate in the Center for
Middle Eastern and North African Studies. He served as acting director of that center in
1994 and as director from 1995-97. From 1978-88, he was director of the Center for
Research on Economic Development and from 1986-93 was co-director and director of
the Seminaire sur l'Economie du Developpement. Professor Barlow was also a professor
in the Department of Population Planning and International Health from 1988-95. In
1995, that department was integrated into the Department of Epidemiology, where
Professor Barlow served as professor until the time of his retirement.
Within the Department of Epidemiology, Professor Barlow played a key role in the
international health program. He not only assisted numerous public health students in
identifying and financing overseas internships, but he was also instrumental in soliciting
donations from international health graduates for the benefit of the Jan de Vres Memorial
Fund.
Professor Barlow holds a strong, positive reputation in Europe, North America, and
the Middle East on issues of public health and development. He published widely on the
relationship between these two disciplines and consulted frequently with the World
Bank, the World Health Organization, the United States Agency for International
Development, and other international agencies. Most recently, he participated in a
training project in the Department of Epidemiology, funded by the National Institutes of
Health, which provided training for medical students from Malawi.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for this dedicated service
by naming Robin Barlow professor emeritus of epidemiology.
Maria Comninou, Ph.D., professor of mechanical engineering and applied
mechanics, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2000.
Professor Comninou earned her B.S.E. degree in 1970 from the National Technical
University of Athens and her M.S.E. (1971) and Ph.D. (1973) degrees from Northwestern
University. She joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1974 as an assistant
professor in the Department of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science and was
promoted to associate professor in 1979 in the Department of Civil Engineering. In 1983,
she joined the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics (MEAM)
and was promoted to professor in 1985. She earned her J.D. degree from the University
of Michigan in 1996, was admitted to the Michigan Bar in 1997, and was registered to
practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 1999.
Professor Comninou's groundbreaking work on interface cracks, for which she was
honored in 1978 with both the Henry Hess Award (ASME, ASCE, IEEE and Western
Society of Engineers) and Alfred Noble prize (ASME), inspired a generation of
investigators in the area now known as micromechanics. Her later work, focusing on
wave propagation, elastic contact, fracture, and friction problems and thermoelasticity,
earned her the Northwestern University Alumnae Award, the presidency of the Society of
Engineering Science (1990), the status of fellow in the ASME (1993), and the status of
fellow in the American Academy of Mechanics (1994). The MEAM department


27




July Meeting, 2000


recognized her with its "Jiminy Cricket" Ethics Award in 1993 and an Excellence in
Service Award in 1996. In 1998, she received the University's Sarah Goddard Power
Award. In 1999, Professor Comninou blended her education in law and engineering to
serve as patent advisor for the Engineering Research Center (ERC) for Reconfigurable
Machining Systems and to develop new graduate courses in patent law and product
liability.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Maria Comninou professor
emerita of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics.
Hani I. Fakhouri, Ph.D., professor of anthropology at the University of
Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Fakhouri received his B.A. (1958) and M.A. (1961) degrees from Wayne
State University and his Ph.D. degree in 1969 from Michigan State University. From
1966-72, he was a faculty member at the University of Dayton. He joined the faculty of
the University of Michigan-Flint as an associate professor in 1972 and was promoted to
professor in 1975.
Upon his arrival at the University of Michigan-Flint in 1972, Professor Fakhouri
assumed responsibility for developing the anthropology major. Later, he also developed
and coordinated the gerontology minor studies at UM-Flint. Professor Fakhouri served
as chair of the Department of Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice several times and
chaired the Urban Studies Program. He also initiated the highly successful student
international studies program in Egypt, Jordan, and Canada, for which students receive
academic credit.
Professor Fakhouri's research and writing focused on the impact of urbanization
and industrialization on traditional peasant culture and the new urban trend in Egypt,
Islamic political movements in Jordan, and cross-cultural aging among the
Arab-American elderly population and their adaptation to retirement. Professor Fakhouri
authored numerous journal articles and two books, which are still used in anthropology
courses and in courses focusing on the Middle East. The importance of his research is
perhaps best reflected by the honors he has received, including a prestigious Fulbright
Research Fellowship Award, the Visiting Professorship Research Award from the
American Research Center in Egypt, the University of Michigan-Flint Faculty
Achievement Award for Teaching Excellence, and the Alumni Award for Outstanding
Professor of the Year from the University of Dayton.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated service
by naming Hani I. Fakhouri professor emeritus of anthropology.
Diane M. Kirkpatrick, Ph.D., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and professor of
history of art, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Kirkpatrick received her B.A. degree from Vassar College in 1955, her
M.F.A. degree from Cranbrook Academy of Art in 1957, and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Michigan in 1965 and 1969, respectively. She joined the faculty
as a lecturer in history of art in 1968 and was promoted to instructor in 1969, assistant
professor in 1972, associate professor in 1974, and professor in 1982. She served as chair
of the Department of History of Art from 1988-94 and as interim director of the Institute
for the Humanities from 1996-97.


28




July Meeting, 2000


A specialist in contemporary art, including photography, cinema, and technological
media, Professor Kirkpatrick has published widely, has two books in progress, and has
presented numerous conference papers, all while undertaking educational television
productions, guest curatorships, and a wide range of media projects. She was a pioneer
in recognizing the potential of computer technologies for research, teaching, and
exhibiting.
Professor Kirkpatrick developed more than two dozen undergraduate courses and
regularly taught such popular classes as "Renaissance-Modern Survey," "History of
Photography," "Twentieth Century Art," and "Art of the '60s." An artist herself, she
established a special rapport with students from the School of Art and Design. As a
participant in the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program, Professor Kirkpatrick
developed electronic exhibitions and multimedia/computer-assisted programs. She also
directed 25 Master's Degree students, chaired or co-chaired 17 doctoral committees, and
served on 48 additional doctoral committees. For her outstanding contributions to
undergraduate education, Professor Kirkpatrick was named Arthur F. Thurnau Professor
in 1997.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Diane M. Kirkpatrick
professor emerita of history of art.
Andrew Koran III, D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry,
retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2000.
A native of Detroit, Dr. Koran received his D.D.S. degree in 1965 and his M.S.
degree in prosthodontics in 1969, both from the University of Michigan. He joined the
faculty as a clinical instructor in 1968 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1969,
associate professor in 1973, and professor in 1977.
Dr. Koran has distinguished himself nationally and internationally as a dental
scholar, researcher, and teacher. He has published over 50 journal articles and 8 chapters
in textbooks. His main research interests have been in the area of biomaterials, including
maxillofacial materials and soft denture liners. Within the School of Dentistry, he has
provided didactic and clinical instruction at the predoctoral, graduate, and postgraduate
levels and served as member or chair of several Master's thesis committees. Dr. Koran
served as director of clinics from 1984-86, assistant dean for clinical affairs from
1986-87, and interim chair of the Department of Prosthodontics from 1996-97. He
served on numerous School of Dentistry committees, was a faculty representative to the
Senate Assembly, and was elected twice to the executive committee.
Dr. Koran is a member of the American and Michigan Dental Associations, the
Washtenaw District Dental Society, the American Academy of Fixed Prosthodontics, the
American and International Associations of Dental Research, the Michigan Society of
Prosthodontists, the Dental Materials Group, the Vedder Society, the R. H. Kingery
Prosthodontic Study Club, the University of Michigan Science Research Club, and Psi
Omega fraternity. He is a diplomate of the American Board of Prosthodontics and is a
member of Sigma Xi and Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor societies.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Andrew
Koran III professor emeritus of dentistry.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.


29




July Meeting, 2000


Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval the August 2000 doctoral degree
list; final degree lists for April and July, 2000 commencements; and changes to
previously approved degree lists.
Consent Agenda Approval. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that gifted property on
Russell Island had been sold at a price of $565,000.
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that a follow-on investment
of $30.0 million had been made with Crow Holdings Realty Partners II, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20.0 million to Greenfield Acquisition Partners II,
L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15.0 million to Communications Ventures
V, L.P.
Charitable Gift Annuities
Vice President Feagin commented that charitable gift annuities are among the
simplest and most popular type of gift annuities available, and the University is very
excited to be able to offer them. On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent
White, the Regents unanimously approved the charitable gift annuity program and
adoption of resolutions that will govern it. These resolutions can be found in Appendix A.
State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan-Dearborn and Flint
Projects
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved resolutions regarding State Building Authority financing of the UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters Building; the UM-Dearborn Environmental
Interpretive Center; and the UM-Flint Professional Studies and Classroom Building. These
resolutions can be found in Appendix B.
Yost Ice Arena - Additional Seating
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for construction of additional seating at Yost Ice Arena
and appointment of Rossetti and Associates, Inc. as the architect.


30




July Meeting, 2000


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Washtenaw Integrated
Health Care Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised Urban Cooperation Agreement authorizing the
Washtenaw Community Health Organization, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Michigan Student Assembly (MSA) Financial Report
Interim Vice President Harper submitted the annual financial report for Michigan
Student Assembly for December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2001
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following meeting schedule for 2001:
January 18-19            July 19-20
February 15-16           August - No meeting
March 15-16              September 20-21
April 12                 October 18**-19
May 17*-18               November 15-16
June 21-22               December 13-14
* Held at UM-Dearborn    ** Held at UM-Flint
Regent Horning left the meeting at this point, at 9:10 a.m.
New Degree Program for University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education
("Master of Arts in Teaching")
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Education, "Master of Arts in Teaching."
Naming of UM-Flint Classroom and Office Building in Honor of David M. French
Chancellor Mestas submitted a request for naming the UM-Flint Classroom and
Office Building in honor of David M. French, the founding dean of the Flint Campus. On
a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved naming the UM-Flint Classroom and Office Building David M. French Hall.
Michigan Greats
It was decided to delay the Michigan Greats presentation until the September
meeting.


31




July Meeting, 2000


Adjournment
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:15 a.m. The next
meeting will be held September 21-22, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


32




JULY MEETING, 2000
APPENDIX A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE
OF CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITIES
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional
corporation (hereinafter "The University") desire to establish a charitable gift annuity
program in order to enhance financial support for the University,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the issuance of gift annuities by the
Regents of the University of Michigan is approved under the following policies:
1. The University will issue current gift annuities, defined as gift annuities with
payments beginning within one year of the gift date, and deferred gift annuities, defined as
gift annuities with initial payments more than one year after the gift date. The deferral period
for each deferred gift annuity will be at the discretion of the donor.
2. The University will accept annuity gifts for one life, two lives in succession, or joint
and survivor annuity agreements. Gift annuity agreements will be limited to one life or two
lives in being at the time of the gift.
3. The minimum acceptable gift level for the University's issuance of a current or
deferred gift annuity, whether payable for one or two lives, shall be $10,000.
For both current and deferred annuities, the minimum actuarial age of an annuitant on
the date annuity payments start is 50. However, the University will offer deferred gift
annuities commonly referred to as "College Annuities" or "Educational Gift Annuities,"
providing life payments to being at ate 18 or thereafter and with a commutation provision
permitting the annuitant, in the annuitant's discretion, to commute life payments to quarterly
installments payable during a term of four or more years.
4. Cash and readily marketable securities may be accepted as gifts for gift annuities.
Upon the written approval of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or of
the Executive Vice President's written designee, assets other than cash or readily marketable
securities may be accepted for gift annuities.
5. The University will operate a segregated gift annuity fund, which may be
commingled with the University's long-term portfolio for investment management purposes
to the extent permitted by applicable state law. The full annuity gift will be admitted to the
gift annuity fund of the University and will be maintained as part of the gift annuity fund until
the death of the last annuitant with respect to the annuity gift. Care shall be taken to insure
compliance with general obligation limitations imposed upon the Regents by the Constitution
of the State of Michigan and with reserve requirement and investment limitations of all states
in which the University offers gift annuities. The segregated gift annuity fund will be invested
in accordance with the University's investment policies, in order to be able to provide funds
to make required annuity payments and to provide a reasonable rate of return.
Annuity payments will be limited and not general obligations of the University,
payable in the first instance from the monies and investments held in the University's
segregated gift annuity fund, and secondarily from the University's general revenues, as
defined on Exhibit A. As a constitutional body corporate of the State of Michigan, the
University is prohibited from establishing gift annuity payments as a general obligation of the
University.
6. The University shall submit all initial and annual filings as may be required by those
states in which the University offers gift annuities. Disclosure requirements of federal and all
applicable state law shall be observed.
7. The then published rates of the American Council on Gift Annuities shall be the
maximum gift annuity rates offered by the University.


33




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix A


8. Annuity payments shall be made on a quarterly basis.
9. Reinsurance shall not be obtained for gift annuity agreements. However, the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer may elect to reinsure specific annuity
agreements on a case by case basis, if deemed to be in the University's best interests or if
determined to be required by applicable state law.
10. The administration of gift annuities and oversight of investment of annuity funds
shall be the responsibility of the Treasurer's Office. Consultants or other outside parties may
be retained for the implementation or administration of the University's gift annuity program
and for the investment of annuity funds. These gift annuity policies shall be interpreted to be
consistent with the bylaws of the Board of Regents and the development policies and
procedures of the University. All annuity gifts to the University shall be reported to the Board
of Regents.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer (or such officer's written designee) is authorized and directed to execute all
documents, agreements, instruments, and any other papers and to take all necessary action as
may be required or appropriate to establish and continue a charitable gift annuity program at
the University of Michigan and to issue charitable gift annuity agreements in furtherance of
the program.
EXHIBIT A. General Revenues generally include all receipts from tuition, fees, and
other charges from students of the University, all revenues from the operations of the
University's housing, dining, and auxiliary facilities systems, unrestricted revenues from
departmental activities, unrestricted gifts, grants, donations, and pledges, and unrestricted
investment income, but exclude deposits required to be held in escrow, gifts, grants,
donations, and pledges restricted to a use inconsistent with the payment of gift annuities,
appropriates from the State Legislature, and revenues from the University's Hospitals and
other medical and dental activities. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999, General Revenues
exceeded $500 million. General Revenues are subject to liens securing certain outstanding
indebtedness of the University.
RESOLUTION RELATION TO CERTIFICATION
AS A GRANTS AND ANNUITIES SOCIETY
IN THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
WHEREAS, The Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional corporation,
(hereinafter "the University"), a charitable organization situated at Ann Arbor, Michigan, has
numerous supporters in the State of California from whom it wishes to receive gifts through the
issuance of charitable gift annuities, and
WHEREAS, the State of California requires that an organization issuing such annuities must be
authorized by the California Department of Insurance to act as a grants and annuities society, subject to
Sections 11520 through 11524 of the California Insurance Code,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Board of Regents of the University
authorizes its officers to seek certification as a grants and annuities society and to do other things
necessary to act as a grants and annuities society;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board authorizes its officers to establish a California
Annuity Reserve Fund as prescribed in Section 11521 of the California Insurance Code, to be
maintained under a trust agreement in a separate account legally and physically segregated from the
other assets of the University, said Fund to hold the reserves of all active annuity contracts issued to
residents of the State of California;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that reserves in this Fund shall at all times be maintained at a
level sufficient to comply with the requirements of Section 11521, and that the assets in this Fund shall
at all times be invested in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 11521.2 and Sections
1170 through 1182 of the California Insurance Code.


34




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix A


RESOLUTION RELATING TO APPLICATION
FOR A SPECIAL PERMIT AND
THE SEGREGATION OF ANNUITY RESERVE FUNDS
IN THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
WHEREAS, Section 1806 of Act 1147 of 1993, codified at Ark. Code Ann.
~23-63-201(d), passed by the Arkansas General Assembly in April, 1993, provides, among
other things in respect to the exemption of Charitable Annuity Societies from certain
provisions of the Insurance Law of the State of Arkansas, that every duly organized domestic
or foreign non-stock corporation (or association) conducted without profit engaged solely in
bona fidecharitable, religious, missionary, educational or philanthropic activities and which
shall have been in active operation for at least five (5) years prior to the application for a
permit hereinafter mentioned, and which issues gift annuity agreements, shall segregate from
its assets as separate and distinct funds, independent from all other funds of such corporation
(or association), an amount at least equal to the reserves and surplus as required therein on all
gift annuity agreements, and shall not apply said assets for the payment of the debts and
obligations of the corporation (or association) or for any purpose other than the annuity
benefits therein specified, and,
WHEREAS, this Section provides for the issuance of a special permit by the Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Arkansas for the purposes therein mentioned,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that in order to meet the aforesaid
requirements of the law and for the purpose of obtaining a special permit from the Insurance
Commissioner of the State of Arkansas to issue gift annuity agreements in Arkansas, there
shall be set aside and maintained assets of The Regents of the University of Michigan, a
Michigan constitutional corporation (hereinafter "the University") as a separate and distinct
fund independent of all other funds of the University in an amount at least equal to the
reserves and surplus of ten percent (10%) of such reserves on all the University's outstanding
gift annuity agreements required by subsection (d)(3) of Section 1806 of Act 1147 of 1993,
which shall be invested in securities permitted by the provisions of subsections (d)(3) and
(d)(4) of Section 1806 of Act 1147 of 1993, and which segregated funds shall not be
applicable for the payment of the debts and obligations of the University or for any purpose
other than the annuity benefits herein referred to and which fund shall be known as the
"Segregated Annuity Reserve Fund."
Any assets heretofore segregated and held as separate funds on account of annuity
benefits may be merged with the aforesaid segregated assets to the extent required in order to
comply with the provisions of subsection 1806 of Act 1147 of 1993.
RESOLUTION RELATING TO APPLICATION
FOR A SPECIAL PERMIT TO ISSUE
CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITIES
IN THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY
WHEREAS, Chapter 144 of the Laws of 1971 established Subtitle 3. Life and Health
Insurance Code to be known as Title 17 B, Insurance, of the New Jersey Statutes and Section
17B: 17-13.1, effective January 1, 1972, provides, among other things in respect to the
exemption from certain provisions of the Insurance Law of the State of New Jersey, that a
qualified nonprofit domestic or foreign corporation or association organized without capital
stock or not for profit, engaged solely in bona fide charitable, religious, missionary,
educational or philanthropic activities and which shall have been in active operation for at
least ten years prior to the application for a permit hereinafter mentioned, and which enters
into annuity agreements with donors, shall segregate from its assets as separate and distinct
funds, independent from all other funds of such corporation or association, an amount at least
equal to the sum of the reserves on outstanding annuity agreements plus a minimum surplus,
as required therein on all gift annuity agreements, and shall not apply said segregated assets
for the payment of the debts and obligations of the corporation or association or for any
purpose other than the annuity benefits therein specified, and,
WHEREAS, this Section on Charitable Annuities provides for the issuance of a
special permit by the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance of the State of New Jersey for
the purposes therein mentioned,


35




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix A


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional corporation (hereinafter "the University"), in order to
meet the aforesaid requirements of the law and for the purpose of obtaining a special permit
from the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance of the State of New Jersey to issue gift
annuity agreements in New Jersey, shall set aside and maintain assets of the University as
separate and distinct funds independent of all other funds of the University in an amount
which is at least equal to the sum of reserves and of surplus as required by this Section and
which shall be invested as provided in this Section. Such segregated assets shall be known as
the University of Michigan Segregated Annuity Reserve Fund, and shall not be applied for
the payment of the debts and obligations of the University or for any purpose other than the
annuity benefits herein referred to. Any assets heretofore segregated and held as separate
funds on account of annuity benefits shall be merged with the aforesaid segregated assets to
the extent required in order to comply with the provisions of Section 17B:17-13.1 of the New
Jersey Statutes.
RESOLUTION RELATING TO APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL PERMIT
TO ISSUE CHARITABLE GIFT ANNUITIES
AND THE SEGREGATION OF ANNUITY RESERVE FUNDS
IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK
WHEREAS, Article 11, Section 1110 of the Insurance Law of New York State passed
July, 1984, and known as Chapter 367 of the Laws of 1984 provides, among other things in
respect to the exemption of Charity Annuity Societies from certain provisions of the
Insurance Law of the State of New York, that every duly organized domestic or foreign
non-stock corporation conducted without profit and engaged solely in bona fide charitable,
religious, missionary, educational or philanthropic activities and which shall have been in
active operation for at least ten years prior to the application for a permit hereinafter
mentioned, and which issues gift annuity agreements, shall segregate from its assets as
separate and distinct funds, independent from all other funds of such corporation, an amount
at least equal to the reserves and surplus as required therein on all gift annuity agreements,
and shall not apply said assets for the payment of the debts and obligations of the corporation
or for any purpose other than the annuity benefits therein specified, and,
WHEREAS, this Section provides for the issuance of a special permit by the
Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York for the purposes therein mentioned,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that The Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional corporation (hereinafter "the University"), in order to
meet the aforesaid requirements of the law and for the purposes of obtaining a special permit
from the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York to issue gift annuity
agreements in New York, shall set aside and maintain assets of the University as a separate
and distinct fund independent of all other funds of the University in an amount at least equal
to the reserves and surplus of ten percent of such reserves on all the University' s outstanding
gift annuity agreements required by subsection (b) of Section 1110 of the Act and which shall
be invested in securities permitted by the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of Section
1110 of the Act. Such segregated assets shall be known as the University of Michigan
Segregated Annuity Reserve Fund, and shall not be applied for the payment of the debts and
obligations of the University or for any purpose other than the annuity benefits herein
referred to. Any assets heretofore segregated and held as separate funds on account of
annuity benefits shall be merged with the aforesaid segregated assets to the extent required in
order to comply with the provisions of Section 1110.


36




JULY MEETING, 2000
APPENDIX B
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY,
A LEASE, AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY,
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
GENERAL CAMPUS CLASSROOM RENOVATIONS (PHASE III)
COLLEGE OF ARTS, SCIENCES, AND LETTERS
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and
among the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and
the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the
"Educational Institution"), providing for the rights, duties, and obligations of the Authority,
the State, and the Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's
Dearborn General Campus Classroom Renovations (Phase III) College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation, and/or
equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the
conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the
Authority, the Educational Institution, and (d) easement agreement (the "Easement
Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary, in
connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related
thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions
of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging, and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and
sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State
Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to
Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completing, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State, and the
Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of
its completion, and lease the same to the State and the Educational Institution, and the
Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the same to the State and the Educational
Institution; and


37




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the Educational
Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to
the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act
183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the
lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State, and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the
Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use
certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will
require an agreement to share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an
easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has
sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in
order to meet any such requirement, it may be necessary for authorized officers of the
Educational Institution to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such easements or
the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2. The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction
Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the then seated President and
the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Office of the Educational Institution are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of
the Educational Institution. Such officers hereby authorize to approve such changes in and
modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
Educational Institution.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with the
Constitution Agreement is hereby approved, and the then seated President and the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty deed in substantially the form
attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be
from time to time approved by such officers.
4.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the then seated President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility, or the material financial obligations of the Educational Institution


38




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers
are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts
determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $3,900,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5. If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and the then seated President
and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution
determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility
over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the
Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through
the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to
share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking
available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement if necessary in order
to meet any such requirements.
6. The then seated President and the Executive Vice P Resident and Chief Financial
Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or
cause to be taken all other actions, including, without limitation, making requests of and
approving requests from the Authority and the State and signing certificates, documents, or
other instruments, each on behalf of the Educational Institution, as they deem necessary or
desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transaction authorized in
this Resolution.
7. The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and the Lease (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and acknowledge that such obligations do
not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the Educational Institution without
considerations upon termination of the Lease. The Educational Institution hereby recognizes
that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility would not pass upon
termination of the Lease.
8. The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the
Facility in an amount not in excess of $23,924,900.
9. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY,
A LEASE, AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY,
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
GENERAL CAMPUS CLASSROOM RENOVATIONS (PHASE III)
ENVIRONMENTAL INTERPRETIVE CENTER
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and
among the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and
the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the
"Educational Institution"), providing for the rights, duties, and obligations of the Authority,
the State, and the Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's
Dearborn General Campus Classroom Renovations (Phase III) Environmental Interpretive
Center and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation, and/or
equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the
conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the


39




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


Authority, the Educational Institution, and (d) easement agreement (the "Easement
Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary, in
connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing for other matters related
thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions
of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging, and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and
sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State
Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to
Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completing, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State, and the
Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of
its completion, and lease the same to the State and the Educational Institution, and the
Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the same to the State and the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the Educational
Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to
the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act
183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the
lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State, and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and


40




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the
Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use
certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will
require an agreement to share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an
easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has
sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in
order to meet any such requirement, it may be necessary for authorized officers of the
Educational Institution to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such easements or
the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2. The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction
Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the then seated President and
the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Office of the Educational Institution are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of
the Educational Institution. Such officers hereby authorize to approve such changes in and
modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
Educational Institution.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with the
Constitution Agreement is hereby approved, and the then seated President and the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty deed in substantially the form
attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be
from time to time approved by such officers.
4.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the then seated President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility, or the material financial obligations of the Educational Institution
contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers
are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts
determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $500,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5. If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and the then seated President
and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution
determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility
over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the
Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through
the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to
share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking
available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement if necessary in order
to meet any such requirements.


41




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


6. The then seated President and the Executive Vice P Resident and Chief Financial
Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or
cause to be taken all other actions, including, without limitation, making requests of and
approving requests from the Authority and the State and signing certificates, documents, or
other instruments, each on behalf of the Educational Institution, as they deem necessary or
desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transaction authorized in
this Resolution.
7. The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and the Lease (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and acknowledge that such obligations do
not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the Educational Institution without
considerations upon termination of the Lease. The Educational Institution hereby recognizes
that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility would not pass upon
termination of the Lease.
8. The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the
Facility in an amount not in excess of $3,046,500.
9. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY,
A LEASE, AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT, IF NECESSARY,
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-FLINT
PROFESSIONAL STUDIES AND CLASSROOM BUILDING
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction Agreement"), by and
among the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and
the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the
"Educational Institution"), providing for the rights, duties, and obligations of the Authority,
the State, and the Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Flint
Professional Studies and Classroom Building and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the
construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the
Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the
"Lease"), by and among the Authority, the Educational Institution, and (d) easement
agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational
Institution, if necessary, in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and (ii) providing
for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions
of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging, and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and
sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State
Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to
Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and


42




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance
the acquisition, construction, renovation, and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of
(i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the
Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation, and/or equipping,
(ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such
construction, renovation, and/or equipping, and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the
Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completing, and the Authority is willing
to provide such financing in consideration of the items described above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction Agreement, the State, and the
Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date of
its completion, and lease the same to the State and the Educational Institution, and the
Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the same to the State and the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the Educational
Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to
the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act
183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the
lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State, and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6, or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the
Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use
certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will
require an agreement to share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an
easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has
sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then in
order to meet any such requirement, it may be necessary for authorized officers of the
Educational Institution to approve an Easement Agreement to provide for such easements or
the sharing of a common structural wall, as the case may be;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2. The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction
Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the then seated President and
the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Office of the Educational Institution are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Construction Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of
the Educational Institution. Such officers hereby authorize to approve such changes in and
modifications to the Construction Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
Educational Institution.


43




July Meeting, 2000 - Appendix B


3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with the
Constitution Agreement is hereby approved, and the then seated President and the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty deed in substantially the form
attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be
from time to time approved by such officers.
4.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the then seated President and Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officers are hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility, or the material financial obligations of the Educational Institution
contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officers
are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts
determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $4,500,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5. If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and the then seated President
and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution
determine that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility
over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the
Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through
the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to
share a common structural wall, or (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking
available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then such officers are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement if necessary in order
to meet any such requirements.
6. The then seated President and the Executive Vice P Resident and Chief Financial
Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby severally authorized and directed to take or
cause to be taken all other actions, including, without limitation, making requests of and
approving requests from the Authority and the State and signing certificates, documents, or
other instruments, each on behalf of the Educational Institution, as they deem necessary or
desirable under the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transaction authorized in
this Resolution.
7. The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction Agreement (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and the Lease (only upon its execution by
authorized officers of the Educational Institution) and acknowledge that such obligations do
not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the Educational Institution without
considerations upon termination of the Lease. The Educational Institution hereby recognizes
that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility would not pass upon
termination of the Lease.
8. The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the
Facility in an amount not in excess of $25,942,100.
9. All ordinances, resolutions, and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


44




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 21, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim
Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General
Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President
Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
"Michigan Greats"
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Vice President Ulaby.
Vice President Ulaby introduced Edward Smith, Arthur W. Melton Distinguished
University Professor of Psychology; faculty associate in the Research Center for Group
Dynamics of the Institute for Social Research; and adjunct research scientist in the Mental
Health Research Institute, who discussed his research in cognitive neuroscience.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on a number of recent accomplishments and awards
achieved by students, faculty, staff, and others throughout the University. He also
described a recent symposium honoring Vaclav Havel with an honorary degree, the events
surrounding the naming of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and the naming of
the Ginsberg Center for Community Service.
President Bollinger also made note of a number of other positive developments
that had occurred over the past several months, including a 44% increase of $200
million in research awards, for a total of $645.0 million, a return of more than 40% on
the endowment, an upgrade in the Moody's rating to Aaa, a record increase in private
donations, and a 5.7% increase in state appropriations.
Palmer Drive Commons Building Schematic Design
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the Commons Building design is
being done in a partnership between the SmithGroup and Venturi Scott Brown and
Associates. He introduced Mr. Robert Venturi, who noted that this is a communal
building that will help connect North Campus and Central Campus along a "New Diag."
Mr. Venturi displayed a site plan showing the location of the building and detailed floor
plans for each floor. He noted that there will be a convenience store and cafeteria on the
main floor, and the building will also contain a large conference room with flexible
seating arrangements, a lecture hall, and individual meeting rooms that can serve multiple
purposes.
Mr. Venturi displayed samples of materials to be used for the exterior and a
cross-section view of the building. He noted that the building will be adjacent to the
power plant, which will enhance the building's appeal.


45




September Meeting, 2000


Mr. Venturi and Executive Vice President Kasdin responded to questions about the
proposed design. Executive Vice President Kasdin described the challenges that had
been set for the building: waste no space; create a sense of lightness on the outside; and
serve as a transition between modern and traditional architectural styles in the medical
and central campus areas. It was noted that there will be several thousand people
working in close proximity to this building for whom the building will serve a useful
function.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the Palmer Drive Commons Building
schematic design.  Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Parking Update
Executive Vice President Kasdin reviewed parking and transportation initiatives over
the past two years. He noted that 2,611 total parking spaces will have been added to the
system by February 2002, and he displayed maps indicating the locations of the new
spaces.  Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the departments of
transportation and parking had been combined two years ago to facilitate the development
of one transportation system consisting of buses and automobiles.
Among the actions that have been taken to alleviate the parking shortage are access
control through tighter enforcement and enhanced mass transit options in cooperation
with the Ann Arbor Transportation Authority (AATA) to increase the utilization of
buses. It was noted that University buses have over 4 million rides per year and that
there was a 33% increase in AATA bus ridership in August. Mr. Pat Cunningham,
director of parking and transportation services, noted that students are only permitted to
purchase parking passes for underutilized, remote lots, and these passes are not sold to
students with below junior status. The orientation packet for new students has a firm
statement urging them not to bring cars to campus.
Attempts are being made to expand the acceptance of van service and use of "park
and ride" locations for faculty and staff, in addition to providing free AATA bus passes
for people who do not purchase parking passes. Other initiatives include a new "crunch
lot," transportation enhancements in the community with AATA, and free van pools.
Development Update and Campaign Planning
President Bollinger observed that a development campaign is a massive enterprise
that requires significant time, effort, and devotion on the part of many people.
Development campaigns, he noted, are the most effective method for obtaining the
philanthropy needed for the institution, and it is critical to leverage state funding with
money from private sources. The last campaign, which ended in 1997, yielded the largest
amount of money ever raised by any public university. He noted that input from alumni,
supporters, deans, faculty, and others within the campus community has supported the
conclusion that the time is right to undertake a new campaign. The coming two years will
be spent in preparation for this undertaking and will be followed by a five-year formal
campaign.
President Bollinger said that he felt it important to begin the year with a
description of the seriousness of the development campaign endeavor and to invite the


46




September Meeting, 2000


people who would be leading the effort to address the Board. He noted that part of the
initial effort involves inviting people from all parts of the institution to think about what
they would like to do over the next five to ten years because this in turn is what
motivates people to participate. To this end, he called on Provost Cantor, who has been
chairing a campus-wide group to organize the internal planning process for the
campaign.
Provost Cantor thanked alumni leaders George Perrin and Rich Rogel for their
generous support. She noted that the University of Michigan conducts all of the
imperatives of a great university in a superb fashion, and she said that the campaign is
oriented toward continuing to do this in the face of a number of cost drivers, including
faculty recruitment and retention, information technology, and maintaining affordable
tuition. The University's revenue from state appropriation, research support, and
fundraising, she noted, have to work together to support the initiatives that contribute to
the greatness of the University. There has to be a disciplined focus on taking the
University's revenue streams, coordinating them, and thinking about how they address
the highest academic priorities. Provost Cantor noted that currently, 5-10% of unit
operating revenues can be attributed to expendable gift income. Fundraising can be
viewed as an expanding source of revenue, as opposed to state appropriation and tuition,
and a goal of the campaign is to double the contribution that fundraising revenue will
make to unit revenues.
Provost Cantor reported that the deans and directors of the public goods units and
some of the interdisciplinary research units had been asked to list their campaign
priorities. The goal was to initiate a disciplined planning process that incorporates plans
for use of revenues, state appropriation, tuition, and sponsored research to yield a
coordinated profile of state funding, sponsored research, and campaign giving. This has
resulted in an evolving matrix of campaign priorities covering the entire campus.
She noted that the deans had held discussions with faculty to determine the most
important research and academic priorities in their schools. Following this, the
University-wide planning committee reviewed the individual priority lists and the
priorities of the University as a whole to yield cross-cutting themes that should be
emphasized in the campaign. In addition to campaign themes, priorities have emerged
for the uses of funds. These include endowed chairs for faculty recruitment and
retention, undergraduate and graduate student support, support for new and existing
programs, and support for technology and infrastructure. She concluded that the
purpose of the campaign is not just to raise money but to develop a way of spreading the
message on campus and off-campus about the University's unique strengths, programs,
and initiatives.
Vice President Feagin then gave a presentation setting forth the context of the
University's fundraising efforts and the next steps in campaign planning. She noted
there had been steady growth in fundraising over the past twenty years, with the highest
level of growth having occurred during the last three years since the end of the last
campaign. The amount of gifts from individuals and the total number of donors have
also increased during that time, and this is an important trend.
Vice President Feagin noted that the University of Michigan is one of the top 20
universities for private giving in the country. In 1996-97 and 1997-98, the University


47




September Meeting, 2000


ranked number four among public universities, and in 1998-99 it ranked number six. It
was first in alumni giving in FY 1997 and 1998 and third in 1999. She noted that in
recent years, other public universities have increased their fundraising efforts, which
caused them to become more competitive with the University of Michigan.
Vice President Feagin reviewed statistics from the last campaign, which raised
$1.4 billion, of which $93 million was for facilities. Also during that campaign, more
than half of the gifts were in amounts of $1 million and greater. The individual gifts
that have come in since the end of the last campaign, she noted, are very encouraging
for the coming campaign.
Vice President Feagin reviewed the preliminary campaign timeline and noted that
the "pre-campaign" state will last from June 2000 through July 2002. She announced
that George Perrin had agreed to chair the LS&A component of the University campaign
and Rich Rogel had agreed to be one of the national campaign chairs. She noted that
this campaign will be very proactive in its use of volunteers, including alumni, friends,
faculty, and Regents. Another effort, titled "Networking for Michigan" will involve
alumni volunteers who will review lists of alumni to identify prospects. Although the
counting of gifts toward the campaign began on July 1, 2000, Vice President Feagin
noted that a goal has not yet been set.
Vice President Feagin introduced Mr. George Perrin, a member of the President's
Advisory Board. Mr. Perrin observed that it is clear that a campaign is necessary; the
only question is when to begin. He said that faculty need to prioritize, characterize, and
develop into a presentable format "products" that can be taken to potential donors for
consideration. He also pointed out that new donors will want to have much more
involvement in the process than in the past and will want to see tangible results. Much
work also remains to be done, he continued, in identification of potential donors. When
both of these tasks have been completed, realistic goals can be set and there will be
many more people committed to the process. He noted that additional staff and funding
will be required to develop opportunities for donors to become reacquainted and
involved in the Michigan community.
Mr. Perrin enumerated all of the positive factors that make this a favorable time to
undertake a new capital campaign and noted that "it is just phenomenal what this
University is now accomplishing" under the leadership of President Bollinger and his
executive team. He emphasized that the support of the Regents will be crucial
throughout the process.
Mr. Perrin introduced Mr. Richard Rogel. Mr. Rogel recounted that his experience
as a student at the University of Michigan in the late 60s was "far superior to anything I
ever imagined it would be" and said that he has a "deep, permanent, abiding love" for
the University. He noted that his involvement includes serving as current president of
the Alumni Association, a campaign volunteer, and a donor. He announced that
members of the Alumni Association are in full support of the new campaign.
Mr. Rogel gave examples of how funds raised for named professorships have
helped retain faculty and of the impact that the scholarships he and his wife have
endowed have had on Michigan students and the larger society. He emphasized the
critical need for scholarships, especially for out-of-state students. Mr. Rogel observed
that being a donor allows people to keep in touch with the University on a deeper level


48




September Meeting, 2000


than would otherwise be possible, and he described himself and the new generation of
investors as "activist investors" and "activist donors" who take an intense interest in
every aspect of the organizations they invest in, including the management team. He
noted that he is "phenomenally impressed" with the University's executive team and
with President Bollinger and that this confidence made his decision to provide a
leadership gift an easy one.
Mr. Rogel concluded that "this is a superb university," he was honored to serve as
co-chair of the campaign, and he requested the Regents' support.
President Bollinger noted that all of the feelings expressed by Mr. Perrin and Mr.
Rogel are reciprocated and there was no way to express his gratitude.
Regent Deitch observed that the Regents are in support of the campaign, but that it
would be helpful if the leaders would articulate exactly how the Regents could be
helpful. Mr. Perrin responded that a statement from the Regents expressing their
support and emphasizing the importance of the campaign would be helpful in terms of
recruiting donors during the "quiet" stage.
Mr. Rogel suggested that it would also send a powerful message if Regents were to
personally appear at alumni and development events. Regent Horning commented that
the critical aspect of donor recruitment is engagement of the donors in how their gift
will be used and will improve the University.
Mr. Perrin noted how much it means to donors to receive letters from the Board of
Regents thanking them for their support. He also noted that the kind of effort being
described for the campaign should be followed whether an official campaign is
underway or not.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Gary Hann, alumnus, on discrimination;
Masakazu Sueda, student, on the "Victory Over Violence" festival; Michael Edwards,
president of AFSCME Local 1583, Roger Banks, chief steward of AFSCME Local 1583,
Michael A. Dover, student, Ian Weisner, student, and Sharlene Myers Krupnak, Michigan
AFSCME organization, on the outsourcing of the University of Michigan Hospitals food
service operation; and Peter Romer-Friedman, on the Workers Rights Consortium.
The meeting was recessed at 4:45 p.m.
Friday, September 22, 2000
The Regents convened at 9:35 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and White.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice President
Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Executive Vice
President Omenn arrived at 10:00 a.m.; Regent Newman arrived at about 10:20 a.m.
Regent Deitch was absent.


49




September Meeting, 2000


Development Update and Campaign Planning - Part 2
President Bollinger introduced Mr. Michael Jandernoa, an alumnus of the School of
Business Administration, who has agreed to chair the Major Gifts Committee in Grand
Rapids and who serves on the Life Sciences Corridor Planning Committee. President
Bollinger also introduced Ms. Helen Zell, an alumnus and member of the President's
Advisory Group who has recently created a professorship in fiction in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and is involved with recruiting more women to the capital
campaign effort.
Ms. Zell expressed pleasure at the number of women in leadership positions at the
University. She observed that women are different from men in that they give
differently and for different reasons, and she is making an effort to discover how their
interests can be addressed. She noted that becoming a donor is "a very infectious thing"
that offered donors opportunities to meet and interact with faculty members and become
actively involved in the life of the University. She noted that she is eager to use her
energy to get other donors and the Regents enthused about the campaign.
Mr. Jandernoa observed that the establishment of the Van Andel Institute, the
development of the Life Sciences Corridor, and the University of Michigan's Life
Sciences Initiative represent a unique opportunity for the state to exert worldwide
leadership in this area. He described the excitement that has been generated among
scientists and others about the Van Andel Institute, and he noted that the significant
financial investment in this institute and in the Life Sciences Corridor gives Michigan
the potential for becoming a nucleus for basic research in industry and academia. He
praised the Regents for their support of these efforts.
President Bollinger asked Ms. Zell to comment on the professorship in fiction she
has established. Ms. Zell noted that this is an area which reflects her personal interests
and about which she feels very strongly.
Regent McGowan commented that she agrees that women will be critical to the
campaign. She pointed out that the success of women's colleges in raising "astounding"
sums of money from their alumni should make the University of Michigan more
determined than ever to reconnect with its female alumni.
Regent Maynard observed that women control the majority of the wealth in the
United States, and it was time for them to accept the responsibility that goes along with
that. She offered her assistance in any aspect of the campaign.
President Bollinger thanked the campaign leaders for coming to the meeting to
express their thoughts about the campaign.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the Minutes of the meeting of July
13-14, 2000.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment,
Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.


50




September Meeting, 2000


Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established, June 29 -
August 31, 2000.
Report on Research Awards and Expenditures for FY 2000. Vice President
Ulaby gave a presentation on research awards and expenditures for Fiscal Year 2000
and noted that research expenditures had risen by 9.1% and new research awards had
increased by 44.6% (or more than $200 million), which is the largest increase in new
research awards ever achieved at the University of Michigan.
Vice President Ulaby noted that the awards increases were distributed broadly
across the campus, with significant increases having been achieved by the Institute for
Social Research, the Medical School, the School of Public Health, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the College of Engineering. He described several
of the large projects that had received funding. Vice President Ulaby pointed out that
the number of awards of $5 million or more had increased from 5 in FY 1999 to 17 in
FY 2000, and the number of awards in the $1 million to $5 million range had increased
from 95 to 138 during that period.
Vice President Ulaby attributed the large increase in research awards to the campus
vitality created by the Life Sciences Institute, the information revolution, and initiatives
such as the Arthur Miller Theatre and the Arts of Citizenship program. Other factors
contributing to the increase are the campus' interdisciplinary culture and the
University's internal research investment.
In summary, Vice President Ulaby noted that from FY 1999 to FY 2000, federal
R&D funding to U.S. universities had increased by 5.1%, while total research awards at
the University of Michigan had increased by 44.6%, research expenditures by 9.1%, and
the University's internal investment by 19.1%. He observed that the most pressing issue
currently in the area of research is finding adequate space in which to house all of the
new research activity. He noted that a significant portion of the University's internal
investment in research comes from growth in private support, specifically unrestricted
endowments.
President Bollinger noted that the change in budget model that had been initiated
three years ago by Provost Cantor, encouraging more interdisciplinary research, had
been one of the factors contributing to the extraordinary increase in research funding.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
reported that the Health System is proceeding with implementation of the strategic plan,
one of the elements of which is to double the funding received from philanthropy over
the next five years.
Executive Vice President Omenn described some recent events that have occurred
within the University of Michigan Hospitals and the Medical School. He noted that the
Health System is experiencing as much activity as it can possibly handle, and its budget
is on track for meeting its targets. Regent Newman complimented him and the health
system for the "incredible job" they are doing.
Student Affairs. Interim Vice President Harper reported that "Welcome Week"
and move-in had been very successful. She noted that for the first time in 30 years,
every student had been housed in the residence halls without the use of any converted
triples.


51




September Meeting, 2000


UM-Dearborn.        Chancellor Little reported that enhanced enrollment goals that
had been set for this year had been met without any decrease in the quality of the student
body. He described the achievements of two students in the honors program who are
pursuing international study and a team of faculty members who have received the
campus's first grant from    the Fund for the Improvement of Post Secondary Education
(FIPSE). He also reported on a community town hall meeting that had been held on
campus and sponsored by the Internet Policy Institute.
UM-Flint. Chancellor Mestas announced the formation of a women's educational
center, which will fill an important need for the two-thirds of the student body on the
Flint campus who are nontraditional women students. The center will sponsor programs
and activities, will serve as a general advocacy center, and will submit an annual report
to the chancellor on the status of women on the campus. The center will open in Spring
2001 and is the first new entity to be established on campus since he became chancellor.
Chancellor Mestas also noted that the naming of the David French Building will take
place when the Regents meet on the Flint campus next month.
Michigan Student Assembly. Mr. Hideki Tsutsumi noted that this month's report
describes MSA structure, committees, contact people, and goals of each MSA
committee and commission this year. Regents Maynard and McGowan thanked Hideki
for his efforts.
Voluntary     Support.     Vice President Feagin      submitted Reports on Voluntary
Support for June, July, and August 2000.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... $ 25,200
Airdrie Foundation, Deerfield, Illinois
for support in  the College  of Pharmacy.....................................................  5,000
Alcoa Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
1,500 shares of Adobe Systems common stock
for the Bruce B. Allen Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............... 183,563
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, DC
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute............................ 535,000
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................  11,650
American Association of Orthodontists, St. Louis, Missouri
for support in  the  School of Dentistry......................................................  5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 182,268
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  14,859
American Hearing Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute......................................... 20,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 185,793
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 33,025
American Institute for Voice and Ear Research, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.........................................  15,000
Anonymous Donor
17,563 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock
for the Public Service Internship Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 1,496,697
Anonymous Donor
2,204 shares of various corporate common stock and a charitable remainder unitrust fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 109,837
David C. Arch, Oak Brook, Illinois
for the Clyde Thompson Scholarship in the School of Music.................................... 5,000


52




September Meeting, 2000


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the Institute for Social Research......................... 84,236
Ashland, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Astra Zeneca, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for support in  the  M edical School........................................................  16,000
A. Adnan Aswad, Birmingham
250 shares of Northwest Airlines Corporation common stock
for the Adnan Aswad Endowed Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................ 7,969
Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 5,050
Ayrshire Foundation, Pasadena, California
for the Ayrshire Foundation Award Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 50,000
Bader & Associates, P.C., Denver, Colorado
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  6,000
Bank One Corporation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  12,570
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom  Funds in the Law  School......................................... 59,000
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 25,000
Besser Company, Alpena
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning............. 18,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Funds in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning............................. 73,000
C. Stewart Boertman Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan........................................ 94,684
Boothman, Hebert, Eller, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................ 5,400
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Bowl for Burns, Trenton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighters Fund and
for the Trauma Burn Nursing Education Fund in the Medical School............................ 40,000
BP Amoco, Houston, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................ 10,000
Conrad A. Bradshaw, Grand Rapids
700 shares of Primark Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School...........................................................  26,097
Robert P. Briggs Trust
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration....................... 24,364
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the  M edical School....................................................... 110,000
Franklin D. Brown, Monarch Beach, California
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 15,000
Cecilia P. Bunney Estate
for the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 225,000
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for career planning  and placement support.................................................  10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 5,000
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................... 18,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and employee matching gifts.... 11,525
Civitas Initiative, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the  School of Social W ork................................................... 12,500
Client Business Services, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 70,000
CoCensys, Inc., Irvine, California
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................  15,000
Committee of 200 Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for student aid in the School of Business Administration...................................... 75,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 19,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 241,272


53




September Meeting, 2000


DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Livonia
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................... 6,888
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program and other support in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the Schools of Engineering and Management at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn.....................................................  75,000
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute and
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn.....................................................  15,500
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the Kresge Hearing Research Institute..................... 13,333
Dearborn Firefighters, Dearborn
for the Dearborn Firefighters Burn Drive Endowment in the Medical School...................... 15,000
Marjorie Staat Deline, Midland
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.................................... 5,000
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................ 5,400
Delphi Automotive Systems, Pontiac
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 9,750
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................... 35,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Nichols Arboretum Visitor Center, for the University Musical Society,
for W UOM, and for employee matching gifts............................................... 57,115
Diebold Foundation, Inc., Southbury, Connecticut
for the M iddle English  Dictionary  Fund...................................................  10,000
John S. Dobson, Ann Arbor
200 shares of BP Amoco stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the John S. and Alice B. Dobson Research Fund in the Medical School, and
for the  University  H ospitals.............................................................  12,450
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Department of Natural Sciences at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 10,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 68,718
Robert B. Dunn, Seattle, Washington
for the Robert and Ruth H. Dunn Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School................................................. 100,000
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the School of Dentistry, for support in the College of Engineering, and
for the National Pollution Prevention Center in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.... 62,500
Harold C. Early Trust
for the Harold C. Early Assistant Professor Research Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 650,000
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the ERIM Professorship in the College of Engineering, and for the Museum of Art............. 750,200
Russell Epker, Boston, Massachusetts
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration......................... 15,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for the Ernst & Young Health Care Consulting Scholars Fund in the School of Public Health........ 10,000
Ernest C. Fackler III, Lombard, Illinois
for the  University  Library...............................................................  10,000
W. Harry Feinstone, Memphis, Tennessee
for scholarships in the College of Engineering..............................................  30,000
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support at the University  of M ichigan..................................................  11,400
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School............................ 55,000
Patrick C. Fischer, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Carl H. Fischer Endowed Collegiate Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 100,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 161,632
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration,


54




September Meeting, 2000


for research in the College of Engineering,
for the Harmonize for Hope Fund in the Medical School,
for the Transportation Reporting Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................ 433,500
Dale B. Friend Trust
for the  University  Library...............................................................  20,000
Galen Medical Society, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Galen Fund.......................................... 65,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School........................................................ 25,000
Genentech Foundation for Growth & Development, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 49,750
General Mills Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 50,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Women in Science and Engineering Program and
for the Chevrolet Collegiate  Scholarship................................................... 24,000
Gerber Foundation, Fremont
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 197,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Jessye Norman Graduate Fellowship in the School of Music............................. 73,818
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 10,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in  the M edical School........................................................  24,250
Wallace D. Grant, Plymouth
568 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Mickey and Wally Grant Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 26,300
Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and Affiliated Trusts, Kansas City, Missouri
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
David L. Haron, Troy
651 shares of CVS Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Pamela and David Haron Endowed Scholarship in the Law School and
for  the  M useum   of A rt.................................................................. 24,835
Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 50,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in  the School of Social W ork.................................................. 150,000
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 14,980
Herman Miller, Inc., Zeeland
for the Charles and Rae Eames Lecture Fund
in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.......................... 10,000
Lula M. Hile Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School............................................ 70,000
William N. Hubbard, Jr. Trust
for the William N. Hubbard, Jr., Endowed Fund in the Medical School.......................... 25,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ann Arbor
for bioinformatics research support in the Medical School..................................  1,187,500
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
114 shares of Home Depot common stock
for the Wendy Stalo Huntoon Award Fund in the School of Education............................ 5,561
IBM Canada, Ltd., Ontario, Canada
for fellowships in the School of Business Administration...................................... 25,000
IBM Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Women in Science and Engineering Program,
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for ITD support......................... 61,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 7,500
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program Fund in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the College of Engineering, and for research in the Medical School.................. 99,000
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 35,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, North Chittenden, Vermont
290 shares of various corporate common stock
for special exhibitions support in the Museum  of Art.........................................  19,893


55




September Meeting, 2000


Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 39,882
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachler Professorship in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work....... 400,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health,
for the Institute for Research on Women and Gender, and for the Institute for Social Research..... 3,049,197
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 44,083
Damell Kaigler, Detroit
for the Lee W. Jones Scholarship in the School of Dentistry....................................  5,000
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 5,000
Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the F. Conrad Fischer Fund in the School of Business Administration......................... 20,000
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................................ 250,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Education and Nursing and
for the Great Lakes Radio Consortium  Fund.............................................  1,266,784
James M. Kieffer, Buffalo, New York
18 shares of SDL, Inc., common stock
for  support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,138
Kiplinger Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for student aid in the School of Business Administration....................................... 5,000
Leslie Kish Trust
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research............................... 5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals...................................... 14,398
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals...................................... 14,398
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shimizu-Shu, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 35,000
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for support in  the M edical School........................................................  20,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for exhibition support in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 100,000
Joel E. Krischer, Beverly Hills, California
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Lake Superior Basin Trust, Marquette
for research  in  the School of Public Health................................................ 275,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 7,500
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  6,925
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 200,000
Alan V. Lowenstein, Maplewood, New Jersey
for the Amy and Alan Lowenstein Professorship and
the Amy and Alan Lowenstein Fellowship in Democracy
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 2,000,000
LTV Steel Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................................... 5,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies
in  the School of Business Administration................................................ 1,000,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Education and Social Work.................................... 332,000
Robert C. Macek, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music and for the University Musical Society......................... 7,500
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for the Manoogian Professorship in Modern Armenian History and
for the Marie Manoogian Professorship in Armenian Language and Literature
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................  75,000


56




September Meeting, 2000


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 61,730
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the  University  M usical Society........................................................ 10,500
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................... 5,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society......................................................... 5,000
Zelpha E. McKinnon Estate
for the ultimate benefit of the Zelpha E. McKinnon Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint.. 300,000
McKinsey & Company, Inc., New York, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the M edical School.................................................... 10,000
Meridian, Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............................. 15,000
Meritor Automotive, Inc., Troy
for the Solar Car Project Fund and other support in the College of Engineering and
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 12,750
David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Endowed Scholarship
in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................... 5,000
Michcon Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  13,331
Michigan Chapter of French American Chamber of Commerce, Southfield
for scholarships and fellowships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................... 5,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research  in  the School of Information................................................... 50,000
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
for  W U O M...........................................................................  5,000
Oscar M. Miller Estate
for the Oscar M. Miller Fellowship in the College of Engineering............................... 93,134
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 7,500
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 18,804
Julia S. Morris, Ann Arbor
for the Cameron Haight Lectureship Fund in the Medical School................................ 7,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health and for employee matching gifts...................... 100,645
Mount Pleasant Area Community Foundation, Inc., Mount Pleasant
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School...................... 5,000
MSC Software Corporation, Costa Mesa, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 30,000
NACDS Education Foundation, Alexandria, Virginia
for support in  the College  of Pharmacy.....................................................  5,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 24,999
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................  14,035
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the  School of Dentistry.....................................................  12,800
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Richard D. O'Connor, Birmingham
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 10,000
Richard W. and Gail B. Odgers Family Gift Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for support in the School of Art and Design and the Law School................................. 6,000
Richard Oppenheim, Woodland Hills, California
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  33,360
Osram Sylvania, Danvers, Massachusetts
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Harry R. Oswald, Gulf Shores, Alabama
1,014 shares of Champion International Corporation common stock
for the Oswald Gifted Scholars Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 73,658


57




September Meeting, 2000


Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for support in the Office for the Study of Private Equity Finance
in  the School of Business Administration..................................................  40,000
Pennzoil Company, Houston, Texas
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  6,050
Philips International, B.V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Laurence J. Pons, Brighton
for support in  the Department of Athletics................................................... 5,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP., Tampa, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................ 7,900
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 50,000
Benjamin M. Quigg, Jr., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
1,180 shares of USBancorp, Inc., common stock
for the Benjamin and Patricia Quigg Scholarship in the Law School.............................. 5,015
Research Corporation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  35,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................  35,000
Maria G. Restuccia, Ann Arbor
for the Nichols Arboretum  Flowering Tree Fund.............................................. 5,000
Retirement Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the Institute for Social Research.............................................. 50,547
Hugh Rose, Tucson, Arizona
for the Hugh and Mary A. Rose Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Hugh and Mary A. Rose Scholarship Fund........................ 416,912
Rouge Steel Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................... 20,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for research  in  the Institute for Social Research............................................. 112,444
SBC Communications, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................ 5,400
Frances B. Schneider, Lansing
for the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider
Student M erit Award  Endowment........................................................  30,000
Siebel Systems, Inc., Troy
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...............................  10,800
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 27,600
Richard E. Spatz, Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania
105 shares of Home Depot, Inc., common stock
for the Law  Library Gift Fund in the Law  School............................................. 5,007
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the School of Education................................................... 412,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 22,857
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Strategic Property Services, Ltd., Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................ 5,400
Edward Surovell Company/Realtors, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society, and for W UOM........................................... 6,108
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 14,020
Fra E. Loomis Taylor, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
for the Loomis-Taylor Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  M edical School....................................................................  55,747
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for support in  the  School of M usic........................................................  10,000
Textron Automotive Trim Division, Troy
for the School of Engineering Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............. 25,000


58




September Meeting, 2000


Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
for the ultimate benefit of the Jack Wilson Thompson Endowed Professorship
at the University  of M ichigan-Flint......................................................  750,000
J. Walter Thompson Company Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Ruth Titiev Trust
for the Mischa Titiev Library Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Susan E. Tompkins, Grosse Pointe
for women's soccer support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 8,000
Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan, Tokyo, Japan
for support in  the  M edical School........................................................  50,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Uniloy Milacron, Manchester
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.................................................... 11,962
United Jewish Communities, New York, New York
for the United Jewish Association Federation of North America Scholarship
in  the  School of Social W ork.............................................................  6,359
Universal Credit Services, Inc., Brighton
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................................... 5,400
University of Michigan Alumnae Club - Birmingham, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham  Alumnae Club Scholarship..............................................  5,000
John C. Unkovic, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  27,250
Visteon, Dearborn
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................. 40,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering and
for research in the Medical School and for the University Hospitals............................ 323,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  13,010
Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fund in
the  School of Business Administration...................................................  122,166
Washtenaw Intermediate School District, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital...................................................... 6,000
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 15,000
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
400 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., Professorship in the College of Engineering......................... 22,575
Hans Weichsel, Fort Worth, Texas
175 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  12,163
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 74,501
Robert J. White, Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Joseph D. Williamson II, Salinas, California
for the Alumni Society Board of Governor's Scholarship in
the  School of Business Administration....................................................  25,000
Windward Management Company, Southfield
for support in  the M edical School........................................................  25,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in  the  School of M usic......................................................... 5,000
Hugh M. Wright, Battle Creek
for the Hugh M. Wright Golf Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......................... 20,000
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Medical School.......................................... 5,000
Jianming Xiang, Ann Arbor
22 shares of Van Kanpen Michigan common stock
for the support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 20,958
Young & Rubicam Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  5,000
Morton M. Zedd Trust
for support of the  Law   School...........................................................  25,000


59




September Meeting, 2000


Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies
in the School of Business Administration................................................ 1,000,000
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................................  5,000
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration...................... 246,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  12,764
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in  the  M edical School........................................................  20,000
Anonymous Donor
11,514 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock
for the Debt Management Program Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies....................................... 1,003,157
Arthur Andersen LLP Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  32,857
Atwater Foundation, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 10,000
Charles R. Bacon, Flat Rock, North Carolina
100 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the  School of Art and  Design..........................................................  5,306
Baker Petrolite, Sugar Land, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering..............................................................  25,000
Bank One, Florida, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Carol E. Holmes Fund in the Medical School......................................... 20,000
Bank One Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  7,772
Dorothy Gondos Beers, Fairfax, Virginia
223 shares of Energen Corporation common stock
for the Victor Gondos, Jr., Archives Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.............................. 5,038
BICC General Cable Industries, Inc., Highland Heights, Kentucky
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering..............................................................  40,000
Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
for  W U O M...........................................................................  7,200
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  7,503
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Betty and Marvin Borman Faculty Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts.............................................. 20,000
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Budres Foundation Scholarship in the School of Music.................................. 7,000
David M. Bunzel, New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 5,000
Mildred Butler Trust
for support in the School of Education and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women....................... 61,449
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
263 shares of Merrill Lynch common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for support in  the  School of M usic......................................................... 9,970
Career Planning Specialists, Plymouth
for  W U O M...........................................................................  6,670
Chevron Petroleum Technology Company, San Ramon, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering..............................................................  25,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  25,650
Alexander S. Crawford, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Erie Indemnity Company common stock
for gifts pending  designation............................................................  31,125
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
220 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the  University  M usical Society........................................................  10,601


60




September Meeting, 2000


DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program and other support in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for employee  matching  gifts............................................................  178,463
Dell Computer Corporation, Round Rock, Texas
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.............................................................. 30,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.............................. 5,000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the English Discretionary Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 50,000
EDS, Plano, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................ 10,000
Environmental Quality Company, Wayne
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 10,000
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Paul A. Nordgren Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for other support at the University  of Michigan............................................. 151,575
Chuck Fisher, East Lansing
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................................. 10,000
Flint Ink Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in  the Alumni Association..................................................... 25,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Sam Wyly Hall and the Ford Motor Company Endowment in the School of Business Administration,
for the Dana Renovation Project Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the Ford Motor Company Summer Institute Fund in the College of Engineering,
for student aid and other support in the Center for the Education of Women,
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and the College of Engineering, and for the Center for Engineering Education and
Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......................................... 1,825,000
Agnes G. Fraser Estate
for the Dick Vanderlinden Gleysteen Scholarship in the Medical School........................ 350,162
Marcel Gani, Palo Alto, California
9,000 shares of Juniper Networks, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................  1,470,375
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................ 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 16,500
General Motors Foundation, Ann Arbor
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  43,060
Elaine Gibson, Rockville, Maryland
342 units of American Wash mutual fund shares
for the James 0. Wilkes Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering................. 10,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr., 1996 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law  School......................................... 10,000
Martin R. Goldman, Southfield
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics................................. 10,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Fund, Akron, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................... 5,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  5,942
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering..............................................................  25,000
Howard P. Hetzner, Tiburon, California
125 shares of Vodafone Airtouch common stock
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 5,977
Jean M. Holland, Birmingham
for the Frederick R. Holland, M.D., Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School................... 8,650
Carole E. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for the Carole Holmes Fund for Pediatrics in the Medical School............................... 20,000
Violet Howland Trust
for the Bum Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School................... 50,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 35,000


61




September Meeting, 2000


Intevep, S.A, Los Teques, Venezuela
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media
in  the  College  of Engineering............................................................ 25,000
W.M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research  in  the  M edical School....................................................... 188,686
Thomas and Constance Kinnear, Ann Arbor
1,876 shares of Checkfree Holdings Corporation common stock
for the Tom and Connie Kinnear Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the School of Business Administration....................................... 117,660
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the America Reads Program   Fund.....................................................  34,000
Norman Levy Associates, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 5,000
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  31,984
Eli Lilly Canada, Inc., Scarborough, Ontario, Canada
for the IMAP Program Fund in the School of Business Administration........................... 20,093
Lucent Technologies Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..............................................................  8,495
Jessie C. MacBain Estate
for the Stuart and Jane Sheill Scholarship in the School of Music............................... 52,652
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School...................... 7,500
Meritor Fund, Troy
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................. 20,000
Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, Detroit
for the  University  M usical Society......................................................... 5,000
Michael H. Morris, Los Altos, California
for support of the  Law   School...........................................................  10,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 125,000
Linden D. Nelson Foundation, Beverly Hills
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Medical School................... 10,000
Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 20,000
NGK Insulators, Ltd., Nagoya, Japan
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 20,000
Nike, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon
for the Nike, Inc., Women's Basketball Scholarship,
for the Nike, Inc., Athletic Scholarship for Women in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Sports Reporting Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......... 52,5000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the  M edical School.........................................................  6,400
Sumer B. Pek, Ann Arbor
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School.................................... 5,000
Phillips Petroleum Company, Bartlesville, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering..............................................................  25,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering and for WUOM....... 10,500
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  42,665
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  47,593
Carl Rohrbach Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  43,238
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 75,000
Schlumberger Dowell, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering.................................................................... 25,000
Sesi Investment, Inc., Ypsilanti
for the University  M usical Society........................................................  15,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Athletics and Marching Band Funds in the School of Music............................ 155,000
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Newport News, Virginia
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 25,000
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 25,000


62




September Meeting, 2000


Solidica, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in  the College of Engineering...................................................  6,000
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the MTSP Scholarship Assistance Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,000
Stamps Family Charitable Foundation, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the Distinguished Visiting Artists Fund in the School of Art and Design....................... 25,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Comprehensive Studies Program Director's Discretionary Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................  25,000
Ronnie Stern, New York, New York
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Division of Kinesiology............................... 50,000
G. Leonard Teitelbaum, Holmdel, New Jersey
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................................. 6,666
Donato T. Teodoro, Santa Barbara, California
1,665 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., and
844 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock
for the Donato T. and Rosario Teodoro Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Donato T. and Rosario Teodoro Endowed Scholarship
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................  102,985
Lydia Terrill Revocable Trust, Detroit
for the Lydia Terrill Trauma Burn Fund in the Medical School................................. 18,627
Joseph F. Tetlak, Bratenahl, Ohio
for the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.................................. 5,000
Robert B. Thomas, Redding, Connecticut
200 shares of Barra, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Nursing and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,181
Toyota Technical Center, U.S.A., Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 5,000
TOYS 'R' US Children's Fund, Inc., Montvale, New Jersey
for the Child Life Gift Fund in the University Hospitals....................................... 50,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  15,250
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
250 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M. D., Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 35,748
Olive Ingrid Webb Estate
for support in  the School of Information..................................................  200,000
Emil A. Weddige, Ann Arbor
for the Emil Weddige Scholarship/Fellowship in the School of Art and Design.................... 15,000
Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 5,000
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
800 shares of Whitman Corporation common stock
for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship,
the Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship and
other support in the School of Business Administration....................................... 10,825
Joan D. Willson, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
200 shares of Cicso Systems, Inc., common stock
for the J. Robert Willson Library Endowment in the Medical School............................ 13,419
Herbert J. Wilson Estate
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 15,000
Windway Foundation, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School...........................................  10,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for the Stanley R. Zax Fund in the Law  School.............................................. 30,000
Mrs. Gardner Ackley, Ann Arbor
for the H. Gardner Ackley Endowment in the University Musical Society......................... 25,000
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 25,000
AGC America, Inc., Plymouth
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000
Ellen Shaw Agress, Sleepy Hollow, New York
for the Vivian R. Shaw Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in  the  School of M usic......................................................... 6,250
Ajinomoto Company, Inc., Kawasaki, Japan
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy.................................................... 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 93,328


63




September Meeting, 2000


American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, DC
for physics Research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 14,700
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health................................... 108,244
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 9,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 122,045
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 124,275
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 15,000
Andersen Consulting Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts.............................................................  40,505
Anonymous Donor
120 shares of Amgen common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 8,944
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 22,917
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 25,000
Charles R. Bacon, Bradenton, Florida
380 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for support in  the School of Art and Design................................................  44,519
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 7,500
Margaret G. Bertsch, Grand Rapids
3,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Margaret Bertsch Research Endowment in the Medical School.......................... 228,094
Boeing Charitable Trust, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships and the Women in Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering................ 10,000
Frederick W.W. Bolander, Hillsborough, California
7,020 shares of Data Critical Corporation common stock
for the William Bolander Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 72,818
John L. Booth II, Detroit
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Booth American Company, Detroit
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for fellowship  support in  the M edical School................................................  6,750
Robert W. Browne, Ada
14,842 shares of Reliastar Financial Corporation common stock
for the Robert W. Browne Orthodontic Wing in the School of Dentistry......................... 795,012
Cecilia P. Bunney Estate
for the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 7,123
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 32,500
Henry L. Caulkins, Jr., Cheboygan
50 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 5,880
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration........................ 25,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for the Chevron Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................. 14,100
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 22,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for the Citibank Academic Excellence Award Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 14,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........... 11,400
James B. Cooper, Los Angeles, California
for the James B. Cooper Award Fund in the School of Music...................................  5,000
Corning, Inc., Foundation, Corning, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 15,000


64




September Meeting, 2000


Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 28,045
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the School of Engineering and the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building Funds
at the University  of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................... 27,500
Dairy Fresh Foods, Inc., Highland Park
for support in  the M edical School.........................................................  7,500
J. S. Darville, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
for the Pamela J. Bryant Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.................... 25,000
Edward C. Davis, Harlingen, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 25,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for continuing education support in the School of Dentistry.................................... 75,925
Roger DeMeritt, Reedsburg, Wisconsin
100 shares of Corning, Inc., common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 29,741
Detroit Association of University of Michigan Women, Northville
for the Alumnae  Council Scholarship...................................................... 5,000
Diversified Career and Educational Services, Detroit
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering................ 16,000
Norman S. Don, Kenilworth, Illinois
247 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the  M edical School.........................................................  7,438
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Dow Chemical Company Professorships and
the Dow Sustainability Research Facility Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......................................... 500,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 100,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music................ 92,050
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the 75th Anniversary Challenge Gift Fund in the School of Business Administration............ 250,000
Equiva Services, L.L.C., Houston, Texas
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health.......................... 5,035
Joan L. Exline, Hattiesburg, Missouri
4,000 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick J. Barten Scholarship in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............... 29,320
Bonnie J. Foister Trust
for the Harry W. and Ruth MacDuff Memorial Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 5,880
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Social W ork................................................. 500,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in  the College of Engineering...................................................  9,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for minority fellowships and other support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  255,903
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society........................................................ 32,500
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 99,944
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 20,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley D. Frankel Entrepreneurship Fund and
the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work............. 27,500
Barbara B. Friedman, Cherry Hills Village, Colorado
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 50,000
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.............................. 12,000
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 9,000
General Mills Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 10,000
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for research  in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 32,500


65




September Meeting, 2000


Herbert F. Grant Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 10,000
Robert A. Green, Ann Arbor
10 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb common stock and a cash gift
for student aid in the Medical School, and for support in the School of Music...................... 9,670
Maureen Hawley, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Musical Society........................ 50,100
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 75,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Hewlett-Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado, Springs, Colorado
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 15,000
Esther G. Heyns, West Olive
397 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Roger and Esther Heyns Endowment in the University Library........................... 25,710
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Community  Service Learning Gift Fund.............................................. 15,000
Elsie Hornbacher Trust
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  104,521
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School......................................  104,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry.......................... 197,364
IBM Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
ILEX Products, Inc., San Antonio, Texas
for research  in  the  M edical School........................................................  19,802
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts................... 34,175
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 145,840
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
1,270 shares of XL Capital LTD common stock
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 85,386
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School....................................................... 336,333
Kal Kan Kmart, Vernon, California
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund................................. 8,906
Agape C. Kallis, Flint
322 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for the Harold and Agape Kallis Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 35,491
Sophie E. Karpinski, Birmingham, Alabama
for support in  the Department of Athletics................................................... 5,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Education, Information, and Public Health,
for the Kellogg Public Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..........................................................  4,909,060
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund
for the  University  M usical Society........................................................  10,000
Thomas and Constance Kinnear, Ann Arbor
4846 shares of Checkfree Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 269,946
Bernard W. Klein, Farmington Hills
for the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint...... 15,000
Robert M. Klein Trust
for the Robert M. and Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship in the Law School................ 14,706
James E. Knox, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert S. Feldman Endowment in the Law School
in  mem ory  of Dorothy  Feldm an...........................................................  5,000
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
2,820 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Ludwig and Margaret Koenen Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the Ludwig and Margaret Koenen Endowed Research Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 191,253
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in  the School of Art and Design................................................  10,000
Herbert H. Lee Endowment Trust
for the Herbert H. Lee  Scholarship........................................................ 39,668


66




September Meeting, 2000


Robert C. Leland, Jr., Harbor Springs
for the Leland Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................... 12,500
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 31,175
Jerry W. Levin, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowment in the College of Engineering................... 200,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................... 6,500
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the IMAP Program Fund in the School of Business Administration............................ 8,061
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 5,500
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering................................... 200,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Social W ork................................................... 20,000
MBNA America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware
for the M artin  Luther King  Scholarship..................................................... 8,058
Martin T. McCue, Pittsford, New York
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment in the School of Music.................. 10,000
McKinsey & Company, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and  in  the  College  of Engineering........................................................  30,000
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering................................  10,000
Edward A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Alumni Society Board of Governor's Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 12,000
Michigan State University-College of Law, East Lansing
forW U O M...........................................................................  6,100
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................... 5,500
Elliott J. Millenson, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the S. Behrman Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School............................... 5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the WFUM-TV28 Conversion from Analog to Digital Fund and
for other support at the University of Michigan-Flint....................................... 1,575,000
Richard Mukensturm, Adrian
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 5,000
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
9,200 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Mary C. Murphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Percy and Mary Murphy Professorship of Pediatrics in the Medical School................... 495,363
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 20,285
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Detroit
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................... 8,642
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center in the College of Engineering........................... 6,500
Nielsen Media Research, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Survey Research Center in the Institute for Social Research.............................. 10,000
Charles M. Nisen, Evanston, Illinois
100 shares of Newport Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Dentistry, the Engineering School, and the Law School................ 14,188
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and for other support in the School of Dentistry................ 31,400
Doris M. O'Brien Estate
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School........................................... 25,000
Oberkotter Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute........................................ 250,000
Richard Oppenheim, Woodland Hills, California
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  33,320
Mary T. Padzieski Trust
for the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Building Fund at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn.....................................................  50,000


67




September Meeting, 2000


Perinatal Press, San Diego, California
for the MFM Educational Fund in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Norman G. Peslar, Warren
for the M ichigan  Leadership  Institute.....................................................  25,000
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturer's of America, Washington, DC
for research in  the College of Pharmacy..................................................... 6,000
Pharmacia, Inc., Kalamazoo
for support in  the College  of Pharmacy.....................................................  5,000
William F. Piper, Ossineke
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 10,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Richard Riley, Mayville
for support in the School of Business Administration, in memory of Edwin C. Parker............... 20,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarships in the Schools of Dentistry,
Nursing and Public Health and for support in the College of Pharmacy............................ 6,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................. 100,000
Margery H. Ruth, Sun City, Arizona
2,268 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Ruth Research Fellow Fund, the Ruth Summer Research Award Fund and
for the J. Griswold and Margery H. Ruth Endowment in the Medical School..................... 100,076
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 15,680
San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support of the  Law   School...........................................................  10,000
Michael Santicchia, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................... 5,000
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for the Ameritech Learning Initiative Fund in the School of Information........................ 236,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 57,500
Doris Mae Schlacht Estate
for the Carl E. and Doris M. Schlacht Scholarship............................................  8,075
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering................... 6,000
Peter A. Schroeder, East Lansing
for the Chris Schroeder Graduate Scholarship and for other support in the School of Music........... 5,000
Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 100,000
Larry R. Shulman, Detroit
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
Robert H. Shutte Estate
for support in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 67,291
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sloan Research Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 20,000
Smith & Nephew, Inc., Largo, Florida
for the Smith & Nephew Educational Gift Fund in the Medical School........................... 20,000
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in  the  M edical School........................................................  50,000
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for special events support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for employee matching gifts...... 16,700
J. M. Smucker Company, Orrville, Ohio
for the J. M. Smucker Company Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science and the Arts...............................................  5,000
Elizabeth W. Souter Estate
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering............... 68,219
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Photo Archive Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Southeast Asia Art Foundation Book Fund in the University Library........................ 5,250
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education and the Institute for Social Research...... 296,850


68




September Meeting, 2000


Helen McKaig Spuhler Estate
for the Helen McKaig Spuhler Graduate Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 10,283
Mrs. John M. Stevens, Largo, Florida
1,800 shares of Florida Progress Corporation common stock and
a charitable remainder unitrust fund
for the ultimate benefit of the John and Ellen M. Stevens Fund................................. 93,492
Margaret G. Stewart Estate
for W FU M -TV.......................................................................  24,000
Stryker Leibinger, Kalamazoo
for the Heal the Children Fund in the Medical School.........................................  7,000
Miriam F. Tabor, Sarasota, Florida
785 shares of May Department Store Company common stock
for the Amson C. and Miriam F. Tabor Scholarship in the School of Music....................... 19,036
Brian Tauber, Boulder, Colorado
for the Alumni Society Board of Governor' s Scholarship in the School of Business Administration..... 8,500
TCF Bank, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.............................................. 5,000
Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust
for program  support in the School of Social Work........................................... 20,000
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 7,500
Elizabeth Thompson Trust
for the Anne E. Shipman Stevens Scholarship in the Martha Cook Residence Hall................ 137,500
John and Daniel Tishman Fund, New York, New York
for the John L. Tishman Fellowship in the College of Engineering............................. 100,000
Matthew Titiev Trust
for the Mischa Titiev Library Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration......................................  10,000
Univers Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 59,995
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......... 5,500
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship........................... 10,000
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research  in  the M edical School........................................................ 50,000
John J. Ursu, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support of the  Law   School............................................................  5,000
R. Vander Lind & Son, Grand Rapids
for the Save A  Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School.................................... 5,000
Jessie T. Vielmetti Trust
for the Class of 1931 Engineer's Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................... 36,045
Volvo Car Components Corporation, Goteborg, Sweden
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  24,992
Harvey A. Wagner, Dearborn
589 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the School of Education and
for the Harvey A. and Eleanor M. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering................. 9,941
Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
for the Al and Gerry Walk Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................... 12,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support at the University  of M ichigan..................................................  70,060
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
50 shares of Corning, Inc., common stock
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr., Professorship in the College of Engineering......................... 14,871
James R. Weigand, Elkhart, Indiana
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 25,000
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Ariba, Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment in the College of Engineering................................... 120,313
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Peace Corp Fund in the School of Business Administration......................... 50,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Whitaker Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering........................... 28,680
Wilkinson Foundation, Grosse Pointe
for the Nichols Arboretum  Visitor Center..................................................  25,000


69




September Meeting, 2000


Mrs. J. Robert Willson, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
540 shares of Pfizer, Inc. common stock,
50 shares of Corning, Inc. common stock
a charitable remainder unitrust fund, and other support
for the J. Robert Willson Library Endowment in the Medical School............................ 36,570
Margaret Winegarden Trust
for the Winegarden Scholarship Endowment at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 23,778
Wolves' Athletic Club, Detroit
for the Women's Basketball Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 5,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
853 units of Templeton Growth Fund mutual fund
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.............................................. 17,000
Shein-Ming Wu Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wu Symposium Gift Fund in the College of Engineering................................. 5,000
Zukey Lake Tavern, Pinckney
for the Mott RT Trails Edge Camp Fund in the University Hospitals............................. 22,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Acuson, Ann Arbor
equipment for the College of Engineering
Robert J. Amis, Farmington Hills
equipment for the Department of Aerospace Engineering
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
equipment for ITD
Gregory W. Baumann, Ann Arbor
various equipment for LSA Media Services
Campbell Scientific, Inc., Logan, Utah
software package, cable, interface, and data logger for the Solar Car Team
Champion, Princeton, Illinois
air compressorr for the Solar Car Team
Intel Corporation, Chandler, Arizona
four pumps for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
40 internal zip drives for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
International Business Machines Corporation, Southfield
one IBM ThinkPad and two IBM desktop computers for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse
F. Bruce Kulp, Superior Township
seven works of art for the Museum of Art
Benjamin Lev, West Bloomfield
books related to the subjects of management and computer programming for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Douglas E. Miller, Flushing
books and periodical issues for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
Arnold P. Morawa, Ann Arbor
collection of pediatric dentistry slides for the Department of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry
Pace Machine Tool, Inc., Walled Lake
machine work and equipment for the 2000 Formula SAE Car
Ellis Perlman, Burton
64 books for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
SME Education Foundation, Dearborn
various software programs for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering
Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
painting by L. Crapo Smith for the University of Michigan Flint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
Sue Woestehoff, Ann Arbor
books and an audiocassette activity kit for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson
Library


70




September Meeting, 2000


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Carol Anahid Azizian, Rochester Hills         Jim Harbaugh Foundation, Ann Arbor
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield               L. C. Kacherian, Glendale, California
Darleen Boynton, Ann Arbor                    Jan L. Lee, Ann Arbor
Srinivasa R. Chalasani, Dearborn              Roy E. Mattern, Jr., Bellevue, Washington
Marie Bremmer, Saline                         Precision Navigation, Inc., Santa Rosa, California
Geoffrey F. Compton, Bryn Mawr                Steve Rogers, Chelsea
Egyptian Art Royal Ontario Museum, Toronto    Byron D. Ruppel, Hammond, Oregon
Emerald Isle, Ltd., Ann Arbor                 Singer Safety Company, Chicago, Illinois
Fendall, Arlington Heights, Illinois          Pipat Srithammavong, Dearborn
Selma Fisher, Birmingham                      Papken Topjian, Montreal, Canada
Sirida Graham, Ann Arbor                      Florence A. Veniar, Ann Arbor
Joanne Gregory, Lake Orion                    Gwen Walter, Dexter
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted a number of
Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out
the creation of the position of associate vice president for administrative information
systems and the appointment of Laura Patterson in this position.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2000, unless otherwise indicated
Carey, Thomas E., Ph.D., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, August 1, 2000
Cole, Elizabeth R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Women's Studies and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Diouf, Mamadou, Ph.D., Professor of History and Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Goodison, Lorna, Associate Professor of English and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kleiner, Bruce, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lewis, Richard L., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McLaughlin, Catherine G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of
Public Health
Monroe, Christopher, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ubel, Peter A., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2000
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chamberain, John R., Associate Dean, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Gillespie, Carolyn M., Interim Chair, Department of Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, July 1-December 31, 2000
Kachhal, Swatantra K., Chair, Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Kaul, Gautam, Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Mallick, Pankaj K., Director, Interdisciplinary Programs, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and
Computer Science, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Modesitt, Kenneth L., Chair, Department of Computer and Information Sciences, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Periard, Mary E., Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, one-year term,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001


71




September Meeting, 2000


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dominguez, Kathryn M., Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, also appointed Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Friesen, Lauren, Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, also appointed Chair, Department of Theatre,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
Gross, Milton D., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal Medicine,
without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2000
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of American Culture, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Heath, Jeffery G., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Near Eastern Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Keller-Cohan, Deborah, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Sciences, and the
Arts, and Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, also appointed Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Kirkpatrick, Diane M., Professor Emerita of History of Art, also appointed Interim Chair, History of Art,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one-year term, August 1, 2000
Merlin, Roberto, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Rush, Howard G., Associate Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed
Interim Director, Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Schallert, Timothy, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
also appointed Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical
School, September 1, 2000
Shapiro, Brahm, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal Medicine,
without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2000
Silver, Edward A., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, also appointed Professor of
Mathematics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Smock, Pamela J., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, also appointed Associate
Professor of American Culture, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2000
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave
extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hutchings, Vincent L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Peterson, Christopher M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Stoler, Ann L., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave extended, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 2000 unless otherwise indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Position s
Assistant Dean for Communications and Marketing, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Assistant Dean for Global Student Development, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2000
Associate Dean for Research, Division of Kinesiology
Associate Vice President for Administrative Information Systems


72




September Meeting, 2000


Establishing Professorship
ERIM Professorship in Engineering, School of Engineering
Naming of Existing Collegiate Professorship
William C. Kelly Collegiate Professorship of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Assanis, Dionissios N., Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Bromley, Michael Stuart, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Carlson, Heather A., John Gideon Searle Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of
Pharmacy, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2003
Eley, Geoffrey Howard, Sylvia L. Thrupp Collegiate Professor of Comparative History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Lichter, Allen S., Newman Family Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2005
Ortega, Felipe, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
October 9-November 10, 2000
Reame, Nancy E., Rhetaugh Graves Dumas Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Stewart, Abigail J., Agnes Inglis Collegiate Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Arnheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Bornstein, George J., C.A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2005
Farley, W. Reynolds, Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2005
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Hayashi, Robert H., J. Robert Willson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2005
Lempert, Richard O., Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Macdonald, Robert L., Russell N. DeJong Professor of Neurology, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2005
Sieving, Paul A., Paul R. Lichter Professor of Ophthalmic Genetics, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2005
Sklar, Lawrence, William K. Frankena Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2005
Other Transactions
Brown, Susan H., Associate Dean for Research, Division of Kinesiology, September 25, 2000
Chrite, Elrie LaBrent, Assistant Dean for Global Student Development, School of Business
Administration, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Corbett, James R., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Erwin, Mary C., Interim Director, University Press, Rackham Graduate School,
August 4, 2000-August 3, 2001
Fessler, Jeffrey A., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Frey, Kirk A., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to Department of
Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Gross, Milton D., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000


73




September Meeting, 2000


Harris, A. Melissa, from Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs to Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Helmuth, John A., Acting Assistant Dean of the UM-Dearbom School of Management, September 1-December 31,2000
Hopkins, Captain Dennis L., Chair, Naval Officer Education Program, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2003
Kilbourn, Michael R., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Knepp, Marilyn, from Assistant Provost for University Budget and Planning to Associate Vice President
for University Budget, Planning, and Administration, September 1, 2000
Koeppe, Robert A., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Kuhl, David E., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to Department
of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Lev, Benjamin, Acting Chair, Department of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Martin, William C., Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2005
Minoshima, Satoshi, transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Norgren, Margaret E., Assistant Dean for Operations, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2005
Okun, Kathy A., Associate Vice President for Development, September 1, 2000
Patterson, Laura M., Associate Vice President for Administrative Information Systems, September 22, 2000
Ruf, Christopher S., from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
to Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Shapiro, Brahm, transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to Department
of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Shreve, Paul D., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to Department
of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Shulkin, Barry L., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Wahl, Richard L., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Wieland, Donald M., transfer of appointment and tenure from Department of Internal Medicine to
Department of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Christiansen, Roy H., October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001, vice Cleveland Thurber, Jr., term expired
Dance, William H., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Finkenstaedt, William C. Jr., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Goss, James, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001, vice William L. Hurley, term expired
Hayes, Walter, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Heydon, Peter N., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Hoyt, Ruth Briggs, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Kennedy, Sally, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Klancnik, James M., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Lowenhaupt, Charles, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Mason, Philip P., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Pohrt, Richard A., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Price, Jacob M., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Schoff, Joanna, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Seger, Martha R., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Shapiro, Harold T., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Thompson, Bradley L. II, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Upton, David, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
van den Bosch, Elizabeth, reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Wheeler, John D., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Winkleman, Margaret W., reappointed, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001


74




September Meeting, 2000


Committee on Honorary Degrees
Foster, Thomas C., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Anita Barry, term expired
UM-Dearborn School of Education Executive Committee
Killu, Kim, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Mary Trepanier-Street, term expired
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Gidley, David W., reappointed, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004
Owen, Robert M., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, vice Alexander N. Halliday, term expired
Steneck, Nicholas H., reappointed, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004
Was, Gary S., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, vice Mary L. Brake, term expired
Whallon, Robert E., reappointed, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Beresford, Reverend Thuli, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, new appointment
Emerson, Bob, July 1, 2000- June 30, 2004, new appointment
Fullerton, Judith, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, vice Diane Lindholm, term expired
Herman, Tim, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, new appointment
Saab, Ghassan, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, new appointment
Sharbaugh, Kathryn, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, new appointment
Taylor, Tom, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, new appointment
Villegas, Roberto, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2004, vice Glenn A. Fosdick, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Stein, Louise K., September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice David J. Brophy, term expired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Schilling, Kenneth E., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Larry King, term expired
Studier, Eugene H., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Albert Conway Price, term expired
UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services Executive Committee
Casement, Rose A., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Everett J. Blakely, term expired
Jones, Charles A., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Nancy C. Webb, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abdu, Hasina M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2002
Adams, Matthew D., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Aikman, James W., D.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Akutsu, Phillip D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor of American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Anderson, Paul A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture and Lecturer II in History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Anderson, Kermyt G., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Arcari, Betsy L., M.H.S.A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Armstrong, Wendy S., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, one-year term,
July 1, 2000
Asgari, Mahdi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Aurora, Taruna K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Basten, Jay H., M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Bieske, Thomas J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003


75




September Meeting, 2000


Binno, Shereen, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Blumenthal, Susanna L., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Boulton, Matthew L., M.P.H., Clinical Associate Professor II of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
Bownik, Marcin M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Bratton, Susan L., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1,
2000-June 30, 2001
Bravo, Ana, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Bullock, Stephen S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Buntain, William L., M.D., Clinical Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Carlson, Heather A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2003
Castillo, Bienvenido, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2000-July 6, 2001
Cavallaro, Frank S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Cebeci, Mehmet O., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Cernak, Margaret A., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Chan, Daniel Sai-Ping, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Chan, June L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Childress, Anita G., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Coleman, Andrew M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Conrad, Brian D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Cortina, Lilia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Das, Suman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Davidson, Natalie S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Derksen, Hendrikus G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dhingra, Rajnish K., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Dimaraki, Eleni V., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Eppinger, Michael J., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Falk, Michael L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Farghaly, Amel A., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Farjo, Ayad A., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2000-July 6, 2001
Feng, Jin, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1-August 31, 2000
Fitzgerald, James T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Flackett, Jennifer A., B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Flaherty, Kevin R., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Flemming, Dexter K., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 17, 2000-July 16, 2001
Fontes, Fernanda G., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Fox, Kenneth A., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Francis, Jacqueline R., Ph.D., Instructor in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Franklin, Glen A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 17, 2000-July 31, 2001
Fullen, Douglas R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
July 17, 2000-July 16, 2001


76




September Meeting, 2000


Gay, Steven, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Geva, Eitan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Girsch, Elizabeth S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Glazier, David B., M.B., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Golding, Eugene M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Gorelick, Adam B., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Green, Jeffrey A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Haggins, Bambi L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies and Assistant Professor of
Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Hasson, Hana, D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Heiserman, Kristyn K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Helton, Caroline G., D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music (Performing Arts), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Henke, Peter, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Hoffiz, Benjamin T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Horowitz, Jeffrey F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Hull, Liese A., B.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Jakubowiak, Andrzej J., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Jeffers, Andrew W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Johnston, Hans E.,Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Jordan, Coleman A., M.Arch., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
Kaiser, Jacqueline S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Kalinin, Boris V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Karimipour, Darius J., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Kayler, Liise K., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Kennedy, Michael V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Kim, John Y., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Kraft, Michael D., Pharm.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
August 7, 2000-August 31, 2003
Lawsin, Emily P., M.A., Lecturer II in American Culture and Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Layton, Katherine L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Lee, Cheryl T., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 8, 2000-June 30, 2001
Levin, Mark, B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Lin, Vivian H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Liu, Jing, M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Lopatin, Anatoli N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology, Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Malani, Preeti N., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Marcantonio, David R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Mauffray, Randy O., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2000-July 6, 2002
McDonnell, Michael, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 10, 2000-July 9, 2003
Meier-Kriesche, Herwig-Ulf, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 16, 2000-July 15, 2001
Mittica, Nicholas M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2000-July 6, 2001
Mody, Rajen J., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001


77




September Meeting, 2000


Munoz, Juan A., Licenc., Lecturer II in International Programs, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-September 31, 2000
Murray, Uwada M., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Murthy, Thippeswamy H., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Nawid, Senzil, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Persian Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Nervi, Angela M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Nevins, Thomas A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Oden, Esra, B.A., Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Oral, Hakan, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Orringer, Jeffrey S., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Ovens, Janine, B.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Parra-Montesinos, Gustavo J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Port, James L., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Rao, Tharaknath B., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Rao, Geetha S., M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Reddy, Deepkaran K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Richert, Benjamin P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Rodziewicz, Thomas L., M.D., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Rosen, Hannah, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Ross, Blaine M., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, one-year term, August 1, 2000
Rowley, Stephanie J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Sadovskaya, Victoria V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Sakurai, Sharin Y., Ph.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 3, 2000-August 31, 2001
Sandler, Kevin, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Sarkarzadeh, Amir A., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Schantz-Rontal, Amy K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Schlesinger, Lee I., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Schwendeman, Steven P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Seymour, Travis L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Sharif, Adel A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Shih, Margaret J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Smith-Wheelock, Michael W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Squires, Catherine R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Stanley, Rachel M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 18, 2000-July 17, 2001
Stetz, Sharon P., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Sullivan, Kevin P., M.A., Lecturer I in Old Testament, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Sylvester, Dennis M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Tang, Tricia S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Medical Education, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Throne, Stephanie S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003


78




September Meeting, 2000


Turner, Stephen W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Verma, Kaushal K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Vraciu, Adela-Nicoleta C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2000
Vyas, Sapna, B.A., Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Wang, Yuzhi, Master, Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1-August 19, 2000
Weston, Thomas A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Willis, Craig B., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 17-December 8, 2000
Yuan, Kathy Z., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Bratton, Susan L., M.P.H., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002 (previously reported as Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases)
Willis, Craig B., M.D.,. Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1-December 8, 2000 (previously
reported as July 17-December 8, 2000)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Annich, Gail M., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in Surgery to
Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Baker, Diane L., from Lecturer in Human Genetics, Medical School, and Lecturer in Epidemiology,
School of Public Health to Clinical Associate Professor II of Human Genetics, Medical School,
April 1, 2000
Bobek, Eileen M., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Burkam, David T., from Instructor in Education, School of Education, and Lecturer II in Residential
College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Lecturer II in Residential College, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2000
Davies, Douglas D., from Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, and Clinical Associate Professor II of
Social Work, School of Social Work, to Clinical Associate Professor II of Social Work, School of
Social Work, July 1, 2000
Fischbach, Peter S., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Francis, Jacqueline R., Instructor of History in Art, also appointed Instructor in Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Hammond, Wendy, from Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, and Lecturer III in
English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to Assistant Professor
of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, September 1, 2000
Harris, Lisa H., from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, July 1, 2000
Hays, Jude C., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2000
Howard, Denise, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2000
Kessinger, Colin C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2000
Kolias, Theodore J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, July 1, 2000
Leavey, Sean F., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Losman, Eve, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000


79




September Meeting, 2000


Mangrulkar, Rajesh S., from Clinical Instructor II to Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2000
Mikol, Daniel D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Morenoff, Jeffrey D., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Opipari, Anthony W. Jr., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, July 1, 2000
Pomeranz, Elaine S., from Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Surgery to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Squires, Catherine R., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, also appointed Assistant Professor
of Afroamerican and African Studies and Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Swaniker, Fresca C., from Lecturer in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000
Westfall, Margaret V., Assistant Professor of Physiology also appointed Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medical School, July 1, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aminoff, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001
Bassett, John R., Professor Emeritus of Forestry, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Bohr, David F., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Das, Sunil K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Feuerwerker, Yi-tsi, Professor Emerita of Chinese Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Gunn, Sondra M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Hunter, Mary L., Assistant Professor Emerita of Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Jourdian, George W., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine and Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School, January 1, 2000-December 31, 2000
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor Emeritus of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Ladu, Bert N. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Larimore, Ann E., Professor Emerita of Geography and Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Lorey, Robert E., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Marzolf, Kingsbury, Professor Emeritus of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, June 1-July 31, 2000
Mohr, Lawrence B., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, September 1-December 31, 2000
Moore, Thomas E., Professor Emeritus of Biology and Curator Emeritus of Insects, Museum of Zoology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-July 31, 2000
Naylor, Bernard., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeritus of Law, Law
School, September 1-December 31, 2000
Stem, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, School of Public Policy, September 1-December 31, 2000
Weber, Wendell W., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Yeh, Gregory, Professor Emeritus of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-June 30, 2001
Zannoni, Vincent G., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Zweifler, Andrew J., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001


80




September Meeting, 2000


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Almaguer, Tomas, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Sociology and American
Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching assignment,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Alwin, Duane F., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Anderson, Andrew A., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Arroyo, Jossianna, Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Arruda, Ellen M., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leaave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Askew, Kelly M., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus September
1-December 31, 2000
Assanis, Dionissios N., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Barald, Kate F., Associate Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, September 24, 2000-September 23, 2001
Barbarin, Oscar A. III, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching assignment,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Barks, Debbie L., Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Barnard, Ruth M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Barnett, Robert W., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Biro, Matthew N., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Bolkosky, Sidney M., William E. Stirton Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Bolton, Mark W., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Bound, John, Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Broos, Antonius J. M., Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, February 1-April 27, 2000
Brown, Catherine, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Brown, James W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30-2001
Brown, William B., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Carty, Linda E., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
outside teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Coffin, Edna A., Professor of Modern Hebrew, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2002
Constant, John G., Associate Professor of Music History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Cornish, Alison, Assistant Professor of Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Crowell, Elizbeth, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Deskins, Donald R., Professor of Urban Geography and Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Dimendberg, Edward, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literature, and Assistant Professor
of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and Assistant Professor of


81




September Meeting, 2000


Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Faires, Nora H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair, Department of History, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, outside teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Fessler, Kathryn B., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, extended sick leave, August 16-October 1, 2000
Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Flynn, Gordon L., Professor of Pharmaceuticals, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Ford, Richard I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of Botany, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, duty off
campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Foster, Thomas C., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Ghebre-Yohannes, Arefaine, Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Management, outside teaching assignment,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Gillespie, Carolyn M., Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of
Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Gough, Maria E., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Grese, Robert E., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hagen, John W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2000
Hahn, Jessica M., Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Hassan, Diana M. Gomez., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, June 19-July 16, 2000
Heath, Jeffrey G., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hecht, Gabrielle, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History in the
Residential College, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hilberry, Ann M., Lecturer III in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching
assignment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hill-Rowley, Richard, Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Sciences, with tenure, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hirshorn, Seth I., Associate Professor of Public Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Hutchings, Vincent L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Huth, Paul K., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Ivanhoe, Philip J., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Asian
Laguages and Cultures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2000, and research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Jackson, John E., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Jackson, Travis A., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Joynt, Lynn K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
June 7-September 27, 2000
Kim, E. Han, Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration and Professor of Finance and
International Business, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
King, Cheryl A., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor
of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 2000


82




September Meeting, 2000


Klein, Katherine A., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, August 25-November 16, 2000
Knodel, John E., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kollman, Kenneth W., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kumar, Kamalesh, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Kuo, Arthur D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Langmore, John P., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Lauffer, Armand, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Levinsohn, James A., Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Ludomirsky, Achiau, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, August 1, 2000-January 31, 2001
Markel, Howard, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, and Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1999, and duty off campus, January 1-June 30, 2000
Mawby, Carolyn M., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
McAuliffe, Mary, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, educational leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
McCracken, Peggy S., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
McDonald, Terrence J., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Michalowski, Piotr A., George G. Cameron Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Civilization and
Languages and Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Milroy, Ann L., Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Mindell, David P., Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Curator, Museum of Zoology, duty off campus, May 22-31, 2000
Mitchell, Michele, Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Murray, Kent S., Associate Professor of Geology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Musci, Adrienne T., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, extended sick leave, August 11-August 14, 2000
Nettles, Arie L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, and Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, personal leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Ni, Jun, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
O'Donnell, Paul E., Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Foreign
Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Oaklander, Lester N., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Olsen, Tava M., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
outside teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Papp, Frank J., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Parsons, Jeffrey R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Curator of Latin American Archaeology, Museum of Anthropology, duty off campus, May
29-July 29, 2000
Payne, Robert B., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Curator of Birds, Museum of Zoology, duty off campus, September 3-13, 2000
Peng, Huei, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001


83




September Meeting, 2000


Peterson, Christopher M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Peterson, Paul K., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Petty, Wayne C., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Pichersky, Eran, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, May 1-31, 2000, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, and sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Pijanowski, Hiroko S., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Platz, Stephanie S., Alex Manoogian Assistant Professor of Modern Armenian History and Assistant
Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Corporate Strategy and International Business, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
personal leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Renne, Elisha P., Assistant Professor of Anthropology and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2000, and research leave January 1-May 31, 2001
Repic, Randall L., Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Sciences, with tenure, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Ross, Michael L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Sheng, Bright, Professor of Music (Composition/Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Smith, H. Dennis, Professor of Music (Trombone), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Soloman, William R., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
November 1, 1998-September 30, 2000
Somers, Lee H., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, and Lecturer in
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Science, College of Engineering, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Somers, Margaret R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2000-May 31, 2001
Standifer, James A., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Stein, Jeffrey L., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Stewart-Robinson, James, Professor of Turkish Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 1999-May 31, 2000
Stockton, Ronald R., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Swaroop, Anand, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 2000
Tolman, Richard M., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Tortora, Christina M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000, and research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Vicinus, Martha J., Eliza M. Mosher Distinguished University Professor, Professor of English and
Women' s Studies, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Von Moltke, Johannes F., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Assistant
Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Von Eschen, Penny M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001


84




September Meeting, 2000


Walton, Kendall L., Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professor of Philosophy and Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Ward, Lucretia M., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000, and research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Weick, Karl E., Rensis Likert Collegiate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Psychology, Professor
of Organizational Behavior, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Welbourne, Theresa M., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, personal leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Windfuhr, Gernot L., Professor of Iranian Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Wintroub, A. Michael., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Wiseman, John R., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000, and retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2001
Yee, Albert F., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, personal leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Zeit, Alois, Instructor of German, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 2000
Zhang, Rachel Q., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
outside teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Hales, Thomas C., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001)
Pichersky, Eran, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as scholarly leave, September
1-December 31, 2000, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001)
Silver, Terry M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
April 11-August 21, 2000 (previously reported as April 11-June 30, 2000)
CANCELLATION OF APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Siebers, Tobin A., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Anzai, Yoshimi, Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 31, 2000
Aparicio, Frances R., Associate Chair of Romance Languages and Literatures and Professor of Spanish
and American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Bashir, Elena L., Lecturer II in Indian Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Bauman, Marcy L., Assistant Professor of English Composition and Rhetoric, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, May 17, 2000
Beleh, Mustapha A., Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, August 25, 2000
Bunchman, Timothy E., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, July 31, 2000
Carlos, Ruth J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Chhibber, Pradeep, K., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Chudnofsky, Carl R., Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 2000
Clemens, J. Quentin, Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Colling, Kathleen B., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2000


85




September Meeting, 2000


Deason, Lucinda M., Lecturer in Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies, June
30, 2000
Dershem, Thomas O., Lecturer III in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Devejian, Neil S., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
DiPaolo, Don G., Instructor in Education, School of Education, June 30, 2000
Docherty, Carrie L., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, August 31, 2000
Doerr, Timothy D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Eyler, A. Evan, Clinical Associate Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School, April 30, 2000
Fatica, Richard A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Frankel, Richard M., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2000
Fredericks, Jennifer A., Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Freiberg, Andrew A., Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, July 31, 2000
Ghezzi, Elisa M., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 2000
Gregory, Lynn A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 15, 2000
Harris-Reid, Michelle A., Lecturer II in Sociology and Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 4, 2000
Hayashi, Takahiko, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 2000
Helt, Jacob S., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2000
Huntington, John H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 31, 2000
Jackson, Phoebe S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Jin, Jionghua, Lecturer in Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering, August 31, 2000
Johnson, Marilyn F., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2000
Kellenberg, Joan E., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, July 14, 2000
Kercher, Marley L., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 15, 2000
Knickerbocker, Patricia J., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2000
Koch, John M., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 17, 2000
Lark, Kurt K., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Lauer, Roger E., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Lelli, Joseph L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Leonard, Patricia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, June 30, 2000
Linetsky, Vadim, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
July 31, 2000
Littles, James F. Jr., Clinical Instructor II in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 21, 2000
Lupercio, Ernesto, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,?????
Mehrad, Boma, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Miller, Claudia M., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 31, 2000
Mooradian, Dawn E., Clinical Associate Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Morgan, Eileen M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 2000
Mousseau, Cedric W., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, August 31, 2000
Myers, Larry L., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Nallamothu, Brahmajee K., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Olson, Allan D., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, June 25, 2000
Patterson, Martha H., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Perlow, Leslie A., Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
School of Business Administration, August 31, 2000
Pfeifle, Robert M., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2000
Pickett, Linda K., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
June 30, 2000
Polverini, Peter J., Donald A. Kerr Professor of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School
of Dentistry, and Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2000
Ritter, Kelly A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Rouff, Lisa C., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Composition Board, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Schwartz, David A., Lecturer II in Psychology and Lecturer II in English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000


86




September Meeting, 2000


Schooler, Esther J., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, June 30, 2000
Scott, Hubert L. Jr., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2000
Shaikh, Zubair A., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Sung, Randall S., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Thomas, Pamela M., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 25, 2000
Tryggvason, Gretar, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, August
31, 2000
Turan, Mete H., Professor of Architecture, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, May 31, 2000
Wallace, Richard R., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education and Lecturer in Technical
Communication, College of Engineering, May 31, 2000
Wong, Jeffrey H., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, July 5, 2000
Yaquinto, Marilyn A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, June 30, 2000
Yokoyama, Shigeru, Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
York, Cynthia N., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 1, 2000
Retired
Duell, Elizabeth A., Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School, July 31, 2000
Kirkpatrick, Diane M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Lohr, Naomi E., Assistant Professor of Psychology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
MacAlpine, Gordon M., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Martonyi, Csaba L., Associate Professor of Medical and Biological Illustration, with tenure, Medical
School, August 31, 2000
O'Connor, Gerald A., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Stewart-Robinson, James, Professor of Turkish Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Weiner, Norman D., Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, August 31, 2000
Term Completed
Ahmad, Amjad Z., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, Medical School, July 6, 2000
Baer, Marc D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1999
Beal, Scott W., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1999
Bridges, Michael M., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2000
Burgos, Francesc, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Clemens, Judith M., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Cooley, Melanie A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 2000
Figlewicz, Raymond E., Assistant Professor of Accounting, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
May 1, 2000
Forrester, Kathleen A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Garrett, Mark E., Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2000
Goh, Keow Mei, Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Heitzeg, Mary M., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Kaitany, Andrea A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Kinnen, Ryan M., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Loncar, Michael G., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies and Lecturer I in English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Martin, Katherine E., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Massoud, Tarik F., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Mauger, Delphine, Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Mikaelian, Benedicte, Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Millar, Katherine B., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Munoz, Peter, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1999
Obrecht, Michelle L., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999


87




September Meeting, 2000


O'Keefe, Vincent A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2000
Palombari, Stefano, Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Pettersen, Kristine M., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Pina, Margarita M., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Propeck, Tim, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Queralto-Hemandez, Paula., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Ruffa, Astrid, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Sanchez, Maria V., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Schmall, Robert J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Schreier, Shelly Gail-Zeff, Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1999
Shackleton, Kristine L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Sharphorn, Daniel H., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Shulman, Michael E., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 1999
Talwar, Harvinder S., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 31, 2000
Varma, Manish K., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Whitworth, Stephen W., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Williams, Elizabeth A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Practice, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2000
Young, John K., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2000
Zwiep, Mary N., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 1999
Deceased
Aldrich, Michael S., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, July 18, 2000
Srinivasan, Keeran R., Lecturer in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, July 6, 2000
CORRECTION TO TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Ward, Randy K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine and Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry,
Medical School, April 15, 2000 (previously reported as March 31, 2000)
CANCELLATION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Florida, Nancy K., appointed to Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice David J. Brophy, term expired
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for ten faculty
members.
Yuri Gurevich, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
A native of the former Soviet Union, Professor Gurevich received his M.Sc. degree
from Ural University in 1962 and his Ph.D. degree from Novosibirsk University in
1964; he also received a doctorate degree in 1968. In the USSR, he served on the
faculty of Ural University, the Institute for National Economics, and Kuban University
before emigrating to Israel in 1973. In Israel, he served on the faculty of Ben-Gurion
University. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1982 as professor of
computer and communication sciences.
Professor Gurevich' s research in logic and theoretical computer science is
internationally recognized, as evidenced by invitations to lecture all over the world. As
a mathematician, he obtained fundamental results in mathematical logic. In theoretical
computer science, he strives to link his work to real-world applications. For example,
his work in dynamic structures uncovered ambiguities in specifications for real
programming language.      He has made significant contributions to computational


88




September Meeting, 2000


complexity theory and has become one of the leaders in the effort to develop a theory of
average-case complexity. Professor Gurevich also has been instrumental in developing
theoretical computer science at the University of Michigan, and he is responsible for the
present structure of the graduate curriculum in this area. His former graduate students
have gone on to academic posts both here and abroad and to positions in industry.
Professor Gurevich is a fellow of the Association for Computing. He received the
Distinguished Visitor Medal from the University of Helsinki in 1995 and received an
honorary degree from the University of Limburg, Belgium in 1998. He received the
University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1990 and the Faculty
Recognition Award in 1995.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished contributions by
naming Yuri Gurevich professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer
science.
Ira Konigsberg, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature and professor
of film and video studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Konigsberg earned his B.A. degree from City College of New York in
1956, his M.A. degree from Columbia University in 1957, and his Ph.D. degree from
Stanford University in 1961. He joined the University of Michigan as an associate
professor of English in 1968 and was promoted to professor in 1974. Professor
Konigsberg was named professor of English and film and video studies in 1988 and
served as director of the Program in Film and Video Studies from 1988-95. He was
named professor of film and video studies in 1995.
Professor Konigsberg began his career as a specialist in eighteenth century literature
and the history of the novel and then expanded his range to include critical theory and
world film. He made his reputation with two early books, Samuel Richardson and the
Dramatic Novel (1968) and Narrative Technique in the English Novel: Defoe to Austen
(1985). American Criticism in the Poststructuralist Age (1981) signaled his growing
interest in critical theory. That emphasis informed his expansion into film and video
studies, where he is best known for his standard reference work The Complete Film
Dictionary (1987, revised 1997), and for a more recent book, The Movies: Texts,
Receptions, and Exposures, which he co-edited for the University of Michigan Press
(1996). Throughout his publications, Professor Konigsberg displayed wide learning,
theoretical awareness, and a sly wit, as evidenced by the title of his chapter in the book,
Retakes on Remakes (1998): "How Many Draculas Does It Take to Change a Light
Bulb?"
During his tenure as director of the Program in Film and Video Studies, Professor
Konigsberg built the faculty and course structure to make it a national presence. His
courses in film, like those in English, often attracted large numbers of students.
Undergraduate and graduate students sought him out, and he served on numerous
examination and dissertation committees in both fields. In recognition of his pedagogic
skills, he received awards stretching chronologically from a Fulbright Lectureship on
American Literature at the University of Vienna in 1966-67 to the Excellence in
Education Award of the University of Michigan in 1998.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Ira Konigsberg professor
emeritus of English language and literature and professor emeritus of film and video
studies.


89




September Meeting, 2000


Naomi Lohr, Ph.D., assistant professor of psychology, Department of Psychiatry,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2000, after a most productive and
influential career.
Professor Lohr received her A.B. degree from Cornell University in 1957 and her
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1959 and 1967,
respectively. She served internships at the Veteran's Administration Regional Office in
Detroit, Michigan, and with the University of Michigan Counseling Division and
Psychological Clinic. She also completed postgraduate training at Wolverine State
Group Psychotherapy Society in Detroit.
Professor Lohr joined the University of Michigan as a lecturer in 1963 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1971.  She served as director of postdoctoral
fellowship training in clinical psychobiology from 1981-83 and she was associate chair,
clinical area, Department of Psychology, from 1986-91. She was associate director for
the Personality Disorders Program from 1987-99, and her research group was one of the
first to uncover the correlation between sexual and other forms of abuse and borderline
personality disorder. For more than three decades, Professor Lohr was also closely
involved in the clinical supervision of undergraduate students, psychology interns, and
fellows and psychiatric residents. She was a member of numerous clinical psychology
dissertation committees.
Professor Lohr was a devoted teacher, mentor, and clinician. Throughout her
career, she has contributed substantial hours to the administrative and clinical needs of
the Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology. Faculty and staff have recognized her
wisdom, expertise, longevity, and devotion to the department and to its students and
trainees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her devoted service by
naming Naomi Lohr assistant professor emerita of psychology.
Gordon M. MacAlpine, Ph.D., professor of astronomy in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
2000.
A native of Montana, Professor Alpine received his B.A. degree from Earlham
College in 1967 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Wisconsin at Madison in
1971. In 1971-72, he was a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton,
New Jersey. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1972 and was promoted to associate professor in 1978 and professor in 1984.
Professor MacAlpine's early research centered on the application of atomic physics
to the interpretation of spectra of gaseous nebulae near hot stars and in active galactic
nuclei. His numerical photoionization code led to a better understanding of the
geometrical, physical, and chemical properties of the hot gas in AGN and in quasars.
He has also led the effort to better understand the dynamics and chemical composition
of the Crab Nebula, which has improved our understanding of the interaction of a
supernova remnant with the surrounding medium. At Michigan, he led a spectroscopic
survey program which discovered a variety of active galaxies and quasars, which
provided a more comprehensive sample of these objects than was available at that time.
In addition to his research activities, Professor MacAlpine was a highly effective
and well-loved teacher, noted for lucid explanations and concern for his students. He
taught advanced graduate courses and also reached a significant fraction of University
students through his large undergraduate class.


90




September Meeting, 2000


The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar by naming Gordon
M. MacAlpine professor emeritus of astronomy.
Gerald A. O'Connor, M.D., associate professor of surgery, Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2000, following a productive career as a
clinician and teacher.
Dr. O'Connor received his B.S. degree from Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa, in
1949 and his M.D. degree from Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska, in 1953. He
completed his internship and residency at the University of Michigan and then went into
private practice at St. Joseph Mercy Hospital. Dr. O'Connor joined the University of
Michigan faculty as a clinical instructor of surgery in 1958 and began to develop a
practice specializing in sports medicine. He was promoted to clinical assistant professor
in 1964 and clinical associate professor in 1980.
Dr. O'Connor has been the team physician for the University of Michigan Athletic
Department since 1964. The program he developed with Dr. Robert Anderson for the
delivery of health care to student-athletes has been adopted by many institutions
throughout the United States.
In 1984, Dr. O'Connor was named associate professor of surgery and medical
director of MedSport at Domino's Farms. Under his direction, MedSport has grown
into an important clinical center with 5 orthopaedists, 18,000 annual outpatient visits,
and 67,000 annual physical therapy visits.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Gerald A. O'Connor associate professor emeritus of surgery.
Daniel H. Ringler, D.V.M., professor of laboratory animal medicine and director of
the Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
2000.
A native of Ohio, Dr. Ringler earned his D.V.M. degree from the Ohio State
University in 1965 and served in the U.S. Army Veterinary Corps from 1965-67. From
1967-69, he undertook residency training in laboratory animal medicine at the
University of Michigan and also earned his M.S. degree in pathology from the
University of Michigan Medical School. He joined the faculty as an instructor of
laboratory animal medicine in 1969 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1971,
associate professor in 1975, and professor in 1979. He has served as director of the Unit
for Laboratory Animal Medicine since 1985.
Dr. Ringler is recognized internationally as a leader in the field of laboratory animal
science and medicine. During his tenure he has trained over 60 postdoctoral veterinary
fellows, most of whom are board certified by the American College of Laboratory
Animal Medicine. He has represented the University many times regarding the use of
animals in biomedical research, always giving thoughtful and insightful commentary
and bringing distinction upon himself, the University, and the professions of biomedical
research and laboratory animal medicine.  In 1991, he received a certificate in
recognition of exemplary service to the University of Michigan which reads, "Your
expertise, leadership, vision, and professionalism, as well as the enthusiasm with which
you approach your work, serve as an inspiration to the entire University community."
Dr. Ringler has received numerous awards for his teaching and leadership,
including the Charles A. Griffin Award of the American Association for Laboratory
Animal Science (AALAS), the association's highest award, in 1981. In 1998, he was
granted the Distinguished Alumnus Award from the College of Veterinary Medicine at


91




September Meeting, 2000


the Ohio State University. In the summer of 2000, he received the annual Charles River
Prize, the highest award given to laboratory animal veterinarians from the American
Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA).
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Daniel H.
Ringler professor emeritus of laboratory animal medicine.
William R. Solomon, M.D., professor of internal medicine, will retire from active
faculty status on September 30, 2000, after a productive career as a physician, teacher,
and researcher.
A native of New York, Dr. Solomon received his A.B. degree at Columbia College
in 1951 and his M.D. degree at New York University in 1955. Following an internship
at Western Reserve University from 1955-56, he went to the University of Michigan for
his residency training from 1956-59. He was a fellow in allergy from 1961-63 and
received his M.S. degree in internal medicine in 1964. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor of internal medicine in 1963 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1966, associate professor in 1969, and professor in 1976. From
1983-93 he served as chief of the Allergy Division in the Department of Internal
Medicine.
Dr. Solomon's interest in documenting training quality led him to help develop and
launch the "in-training examination" series for fellows in allergy and immunology. His
Recent work focused on the identification, through field collections and study of
herbarium materials, of a group of spores that remain "unknowns" despite their
abundance locally. Dr. Solomon helped develop and implement a study of allergic
asthma among inner city youngsters, including its potential for amelioration by practical
allergen avoidance measures. He has also worked to develop a network of bioaerosol
collection stations in Latin America in cooperation with interested allergists in
population centers. He has served as a consultant to numerous organizations, was a
visiting professor at many major universities, and served on the editorial boards of
several scientific publications.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician, scholar, and educator for his
dedicated service by naming William R. Solomon professor emeritus of internal
medicine.
James Stewart-Robinson, Ph.D., professor of Turkish studies, Department of Near
Eastern Studies, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2000, after 44 years of
distinguished service.
Born March 3, 1928, in Edinburgh, Scotland, Professor Stewart-Robinson received
his primary and secondary education in Turkey. He received his M.A. degree from the
University of Edinburgh in 1954 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Edinburgh in
1959. The title of his dissertation was: "The Ottoman Biographies of Poets." He started
his career at the University of Michigan as an instructor in the Department of Near Eastern
Studies in 1956; was promoted to assistant professor in 1960, an associate professor in
1965, and to professor of Turkish studies in 1970. He was the director of Asian studies at
the University of Michigan from January 1963 through June 1965. He was acting director
of the Center for Middle Eastern and North African Studies from 1982-83.
Professor Stewart-Robinson has dedicated his scholarly career to the study of
Ottoman and Turkish language, literature, history, and culture. His publications on these


92




September Meeting, 2000


subjects, which demonstrate both his vast philological erudition and unique analytical
skills, have long become standard references for his fellow Turkologists both in the West
and in Turkey. Professor Stewart-Robinson's expertise is truly amazing. It spans the long
historical period from the rise of Turkish literature and polity in the eleventh and twelfth
centuries up to the formation of the Turkish Republic in the second decade of the
twentieth century. He has also taken acute interest in the literary and cultural life of
modem Turkey and followed closely recent political developments in that country.
Professor Stewart-Robinson has taught an extraordinary amount of courses at the
University of Michigan. He was always responsive to students' needs and readily
accommodated their requests for independent reading courses in addition to his busy work
load. Thus it was not infrequent for him to teach four or even five graduate and
undergraduate courses per term. Additionally, Professor Stewart-Robinson took active part
in a number of team-taught courses and coordinated a popular undergraduate survey course
on the history of Near Eastern literatures that covered a period of almost 4000 years. While
the total number of graduate and undergraduate students who studied with Professor
Stewart-Robinson was never high, the amount of time he invested in them held no upper
limit.
Through his scholarly and teaching career and his dedication to his profession,
Professor Stewart-Robinson has enriched the University and the international community
of Turkish studies scholars in which he has been, and in which he will continue to be, a
distinguished member.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated service
by naming James Stewart-Robinson professor emeritus of Turkish studies.
Leroy B. Townsend, Ph.D., Albert B. Prescott Professor of Medicinal Chemistry
in the College of Pharmacy and professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2000, after 21
years of service.
Professor Townsend received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from New Mexico
Highlands University in 1955 and 1957, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from
Arizona State University in 1965. He began his career as a faculty member at the
University of Utah in 1965 and joined the University of Michigan in 1979 as professor
of medicinal chemistry in the College of Pharmacy; professor of chemistry in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and chair and program director of the
Interdepartmental Graduate Program in Medicinal Chemistry. He was named the Albert
B. Prescott Professor of Medicinal Chemistry in 1986.
A world-renowned scientist, Professor Townsend has been honored and highly
acclaimed for his work in the design and synthesis of heterocyclic compounds as
potential agents to treat cancer and infectious diseases. He is a pioneer in the synthesis
of several nucleoside antibiotics, including the first in a new class of compounds,
C-nucleoside antibiotics. He has been commended for his work in developing drugs to
treat parasitic and viral diseases, including compounds which are highly active against
human cytomegalovirus, which causes retinitis in AIDS patients, pneumonitis in bone
marrow transplant patients, and is one of the leading causes of birth defects in the U.S.
Professor Townsend is responsible for the discovery of several compounds used to treat
a remarkable variety of serious diseases. He has published over 430 original research
publications and has over 300 abstracts to his credit.


93




September Meeting, 2000


Professor Townsend is a dedicated teacher and mentor of students and research
fellows in pharmacy, medicinal chemistry, and chemistry, having led the medicinal
chemistry graduate program to its place as one of the best in the country. He has served
in many capacities in local, national, and international organizations, including the
position of president and virtually every other elected position of the American
Chemical Society's Division of Medicinal Chemistry. He has received numerous
awards in recognition of his many significant achievements.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Leroy B. Townsend the
Albert B. Prescott Professor Emeritus of Medicinal Chemistry and professor emeritus of
chemistry.
Norman D. Weiner, Ph.D., professor of pharmaceutics in the College of
Pharmacy, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2000, after 28 years of
service.
Professor Weiner received his B.S. degree in pharmacy from Long Island University's
Brooklyn College of Pharmacy in 1959 and his Ph.D. degree in pharmacy from Columbia
University in 1965. Following graduation, he became an assistant professor of pharmacy at
Columbia University, where he was promoted to associate professor of pharmacy in 1967.
He joined the University of Michigan College of Pharmacy as associate professor in 1972
and achieved the rank of professor in 1977. He was elected as a fellow to the American
Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists in 1990.
Professor Weiner's research achievements have received international acclaim. His
early research focused on the membrane structure of living cells. In collaboration with a
colleague at the University's hearing institute, he began seeking an explanation of why
neomycin and other aminoglycosides were causing irreversible hearing loss when
systematically administered. The accepted theory of the day was that these compounds were
causing irreversible nerve damage, thereby leading to hearing loss. They viewed this theory
as being highly suspect, and in a relentless pursuit, they discovered that the aminoglycosides
were actually interacting with the membranes of hair cells in the inner ear and killing these
cells, thereby, resulting in the loss of hearing. In the course of their work, hearing damage
assessment measures were developed that have been instrumental in preventing future
compounds from sharing the same toxicity, thereby, preventing this type of terrible side
effect from occurring again. Professor Weiner's interests then expanded to include methods
of using liposomes for drug delivery purposes, especially through the skin. First, he
disproved the popular theory of the time that liposomes could be used as an effective method
for delivering drugs orally. In complete contrast, he and his colleagues demonstrated that
they are effective at promoting drug absorption across the skin. These were significant
discoveries that led to Professor Weiner's explorations of the properties of other topical
dosage forms, such as emulsions-also work for which he is well known. His insights
concerning emulsions are not only sought after by pharmaceutical companies, but are of
interest to scientists in other industries, such as oil and food processing companies and
cosmetic manufacturers.
Professor Weiner is a dedicated teacher who has successfully mentored many pharmacy
students, graduate students, and research fellow trainees in his area of expertise. He has
presented his research findings across the globe and has received recognition for his important
contributions.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Norman D. Weiner professor
emeritus of pharmaceutics.


94




September Meeting, 2000


Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Michael
S. Aldrich, M.D., professor of neurology.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound regret the
death of Michael S. Aldrich, M.D., professor of neurology at the Medical School.
Dr. Aldrich completed his medical education at the University of Virginia in 1980
and received his residency training in neurology at the University of Michigan, where he
remained during a most distinguished career. In 1985, he founded the University of
Michigan Sleep Disorders Laboratory. Under his careful management, the laboratory
grew into an internationally preeminent center for clinical work, education, and research
in sleep medicine.
Dr. Aldrich was best known for his contributions to the diagnosis and management
of narcolepsy and other common causes of pathological sleepiness. He spoke to
audiences around the world, increasing awareness about the pervasive but often
unrecognized effects of sleep disorders. In this country, his influence on education, in
part as president of the American Board of Sleep Medicine, helped to establish a new
clinical science as a regular part of training for countless young clinicians. Here at the
University of Michigan, the sleep disorders program that Dr. Aldrich developed became
a model that others still emulate. His recent text, Sleep Medicine, received widespread
acclaim as a precise, clear, yet lively introduction to a field the author helped to develop.
Dr. Aldrich's remarkable professional accomplishments were no less impressive
than the personal characteristics that made him among the most admired and best liked
faculty. For nearly two decades, Dr. Aldrich served as a consummate role model for
students, residents, fellows, and junior faculty at the University of Michigan, universally
respected for his collegial but professional attitude, calm though effective demeanor,
and quiet yet invaluable wisdom. Many patients considered him their best physician,
trainees their most authoritative teacher, and faculty their most reliable colleague.
As sincerely as Dr. Aldrich will be missed by his peers, our condolences are
extended in particular to those who appreciated him most: his wife Leslie; children
Jenny, Matt, and Brian; siblings Carol, Thomas, and Robert; and parents Julie and
Knight.
To the extent that the University of Michigan can claim some credit for his
education, Dr. Aldrich was among its proudest achievements. With intelligence,
ingenuity, and exemplary dedication, Dr. Aldrich returned an initial investment many
times over, reminding us of the unique potential we have as a University to improve the
education, careers, health, and well-being of future generations.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Consent Agenda Approval. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the consent agenda.
University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30, 2000
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the University's annual financial
statements for the year ended June 30, 2000, as audited and certified by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.


95




September Meeting, 2000


2000-2001 Budget Report Book
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the University's Budget Report Book
for the fiscal year 2000-2001.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents about follow-on
investments that had been made in the following six funds: Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers X, L.P.; Menlo IX, L.P.; Bain Capital Fund VII, L.P.; TA IX, L.P.; Welsh,
Carson, Anderson & Stowe IX, L.P.; and Merit Energy Partners X, L.P.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents about the sale of gift real
estate property located at 4005 W. Jefferson in Ecorse, Michigan.
C.C. Little and Pharmacy Buildings Renovations
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a renovation project for the College of Pharmacy in the C.C.
Little and Pharmacy Buildings, as described in the Regents Communication.
Central Campus Recreation Building Kinesiology Laboratory Renovation
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for renovation of the Kinesiology Laboratory in the
Central Campus Recreation Building (CCRB), as described in the Regents
Communication.
North University Building Partial Demolition
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved partial demolition of the North University Building.
Science Instruction Center Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that some of the proposed uses for this
building include life sciences instructional space and housing of the drama department.
The action request includes construction of a concrete deck on top of the Palmer Drive
Parking Structure to serve as the foundation for the building. On a motion by Regent
White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regent unanimously approved the Science
Instruction Center Building project, proceeding with the concrete deck, and initiating
programming activities for the building.
Life Sciences Institute Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Life Sciences Institute Building Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Medical School Wall Street Research Laboratory Building
ExecutivVie Vice President Omenn noted that the impending demolition of the
Neurosciences Building will require relocation of the research staff currently housed in
that building. The Wall Street Research Laboratory Building is proposed for this


96




September Meeting, 2000


purpose.  Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that plans are to move
expeditiously with preparation and approval of design plans so that construction can
proceed as quickly as possible. He noted that he believes the building is responsive to
issues that have been raised by the community for this area. While he recommends
proceeding with the proposed research laboratory building as described, he noted that
the University welcomes continuing discussion with community members over future
plans for the Wall Street area.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Wall Street Research Laboratory Building
project utilizing the Smith Group for programming and design. Design approval will be
sought following completion of the schematic design documents.
University of Michigan Hospitals (UMH) Linear Accelerator Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Linear Accelerator Replacement Project as
described in the Regents Communication.
Payment for Services of What Is It This Week (University Housing)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, all six Regents
present unanimously approved payment for the silk screening of shirts provided to
University Housing by What Is It This Week (Regent Deitch was absent; Regent Taylor
was away from the table for this and the following three votes). Because the owner of
What Is it This Week, Susan Fisher, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its University
Housing Department and What Is It This Week.
2.   The service provided was silk screening of shirts, in April 2000, at a total cost of
$400.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Susan Fisher, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of What Is It This Week.
Payment for Services of What Is It This Week (Comprehensive Cancer Center)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, all six Regents
present unanimously approved payment for the silk screening of shirts provided to the
Comprehensive Cancer Center by What Is It This Week. Because the owner of What Is
it This Week, Susan Fisher, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Comprehensive Cancer Center and What Is It This Week.
2.   The service provided was silk screening of shirts, in June 2000, at a total cost of
$2,030.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Susan Fisher, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of What Is It This Week.
Payment for Services of What Is It This Week (Women 's Basketball Program)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, all six Regents
present unanimously approved payment for the silk screening of shirts provided to the


97




September Meeting, 2000


Women's Basketball Program by What Is It This Week. Because the owner of What Is
it This Week, Susan Fisher, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Women's
Basketball Program and What Is It This Week.
2.   The service provided was silk screening of shirts, in July 2000, at a total cost of
$1,225.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Susan Fisher, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of What Is It This Week.
Payment for Services of What Is It This Week (Michigan Union Billiard Room)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, all six Regents
present unanimously approved payment for the silk screening of shirts provided to the
Michigan Union Billiard Room by What Is It This Week. Because the owner of What Is
it This Week, Susan Fisher, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Michigan
Union Billiard Room and What Is It This Week.
2.   The service provided was silk screening of shirts, in August 2000, at a total cost of
$586.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Susan Fisher, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of What Is It This Week.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers East Ann Arbor Surgery
Center and Clinics
Executive Vice President Omenn presented a proposal for construction of a
surgery center adjacent to the East Ann Arbor Primary Care Facility. In response to a
question from Regent Newman about Certificates of Need, Executive Vice President
Omenn said that Certificates of Need are required for most projects of this type, and are
usually sought following approval by the board. On a motion by Regent Brandon,
seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the East Ann Arbor
Surgery Center and Clinics project as described in the revised Regents Communication
and authorized commissioning the firm of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. as architect.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Keracure
LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Keracure LLC. Because the developer of the technology, Riley Rees, is a University of
Michigan employee and holds an equity interest in Keracure LLC, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Keracure LLC.
2.   Contract terms include:
The contract to be completed between the University of Michigan and Keracure LLC
consists of a license agreement to be executed by authorized representatives of the
parties;


98




September Meeting, 2000


The license grants to Keracure, for TMO File Nos. 1203 and 1654: an exclusive,
worldwide license, including the right to sublicense, to make, have made, import, use,
market, offer for sale and sell, products incorporating the technology;
The University will receive a one time, license issue fee of $50,000;
The University will receive a royalty of 3%, based upon a running royalty on net sales
of licensed products;
The University will receive 50% of any sublicensing fees;
The University will receive annual maintenance fees in 2002 of $10,000, in 2003 of
$25,000, and each year thereafter of $50,000;
The University will receive Milestone payments of $50,000 for FDA approval of File
No. 1203 technology; $100,000 upon initiation of Phase I Clinical Trials for File No.
1654 technology; $200,000 upon initiation of Phase III Clinical Trials for File No.
1654 technology; and $500,000 for FDA approval for File No. 1654 technology;
The University will receive reimbursement for all patent costs;
The University will receive an undiluted 3% of equity in the form of common stock at
the point of time when Keracure LLC has raised $2.5 million in any combination of
debt or sale of equity;
The Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Dr. Riley Rees' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in Keracure. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from the company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, all six Regents
present unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. (Regent Brandon was away from the table
for this and the succeeding four votes, and Regent Deitch was absent.)
Because the principal owners of Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., Brian D. Ross and
Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of Michigan employees and developers of the
technology, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: Molecular reporter technology for the detection of proteolytic activity
related to any disease;
Exclusive worldwide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology as
defined by TMO File No. 1835;
A license fee of $20,000.00 to be applied to reimbursement of patent expenses and/or
applied against royalties. An initial payment of $5,000.00 due upon license execution;
$5,000.00 due upon the first anniversary of signing; and $10,000 due upon the second
anniversary of signing. These monies will constitute reimbursement of current patent
costs;
Maintenance fees of $20,000.00 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be offset by royalties;
The University of Michigan will take a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares
issued by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.;
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.;


99




September Meeting, 2000


Royalties to the University of 3% on Net Sales of Products and 1% on Net Sales of all
Services using this technology. The first approximately $100,000 in royalties would be
offset by patent costs. Sublicensing royalties will be 3% of Net Sublicense Revenue
provided Molecular Therapeutics can make available a Net Sublicense Revenue
justification;
Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license;
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of both Brian D. Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla arise from their
ownership in the company. Both Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla have waived any personal
participation in the sharing of funds received by the University from Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc. as a result of this License Agreement.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and MEMS
Technology, LLC
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
MEMS Technology ("MEMS Tech") for the commercialization of inventions developed
and owned by the University of Michigan. MEMS Tech and Professor Richard B.
Brown have started a company, SENSation, Inc. ("SENSation") for this purpose.
Because Richard B. Brown is both an owner of the company and a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MEMS Tech, a parent
company to SENSation, the company in which Richard B. Brown will hold an equity
interest.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Exclusive rights to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational purposes, with
right to grant sublicenses. The University retains ownership;
The University will receive 2-5% equity of SENSation;
A License issue fee of $5,000-30,000 to be applied to reimbursement of patent
expenses and/or applied against royalties;
Royalties to the University of 15-17% of total non-product revenues received by
SENSation, and 1-2% of net sales of products by SENSation;
Specified milestones will be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
Payments will be made as maintenance fees or related to specific performance criteria.
Each payment will not exceed $20,000;
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by licensee;
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under this agreement.
3.   Richard B. Brown's pecuniary interest arises from  his ownership interest in
SENSation. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University from the licensee.


100




September Meeting, 2000


Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Quantum
Signal LLC
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and Quantum Signal
LLC. Because William J. Williams is a University of Michigan employee and also holds
an equity interest in Quantum Signal, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Quantum Signal LLC.
2.   Contract terms include:
A one-time, paid up license fee of $400.00;
Non-exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain
rights reserved by the University in order to meet a potential obligation to exclusively
license the technology under an option agreement in a limited field of use to a specific
research sponsor. The University retains ownership;
Primarily limited to internal use, with a limited right to provide software to others for
demonstration purposes;
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement;
3.   William J. Williams' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Quantum
Signal. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received
by the University from the company.
Proposed Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials, Inc. Because Richard M. Laine is both a University employee who will be
participating in the project on behalf of the University, and is also an officer and majority
shareholder of Tal Materials, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Tal Materials, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
This project will provide support for Dr. Ryo Tamaki, a postdoctoral fellow, over the
term of the Agreement. The total award under this Agreement will not exceed $40,000
over a two year period. The initial award is in the amount of $14,188 and will provide
fifty percent (50%) support of Dr. Tamaki over a three month period. The College of
Engineering supports this agreement.
3.   Richard Laine's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an officer and majority
shareholder of Tal Materials, Inc.
Proposed Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and TheraSonics,
Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
TheraSonics, Inc. Because Charles A. Cain, Matthew O'Donnell, and S. Adam
Strickberger ("principals") are University employees and have an ownership interest in


101




September Meeting, 2000


Therasonics, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TheraSonics, Inc.
2.   Option agreement terms include:
Option for a royalty-bearing exclusive license of University's interests in the
inventions, for all fields of use;
TheraSonics to pay a total of $30,000.00 for the option in installments of $10,000.00
and $20,000 - to be applied toward patent costs;
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Charles Cain, Matthew O'Donnell and Adam Strickberger
arise from their ownership interest in TheraSonics, Inc. They will waive any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from their business.
Establishment of the Department of Linguistics in the rtCollege of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the establishment of the Department of Linguistics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
Establishment of a Cardiovascular Center within the University of Michigan
Health System
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that designation of a Cardiovascular Center
would enhance the research and educational missions of the Health System and it is hoped
will lead to improved public engagement with this major disease category. On a motion
by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved
establishment of a Cardiovascular Center within the University of Michigan Health
System.
Revision of the Bylaws of the Executive Board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved revision of the Bylaws of the Executive Board of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, as specified in the Regents Communication.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:55 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for October 19-20, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


102




OCTOBER MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 19, 2000
The Regents convened at 3:00 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms of the Harding Mott
University Center on the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present were
President Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin,
Interim Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and
General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers,
Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Executive Vice President Omenn was absent.
"Michigan Greats"
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Vice President Ulaby.
Vice President Ulaby introduced Professor Lois Alexander, chair of the Department of
Music at the University of Michigan-Flint. Professor Alexander noted that "Michigan
Greats" would feature the University of Michigan-Flint's Gospel Choir, directed by
Professor Carl Byerly.  Professor Byerly then led the choir in a twenty-minute
performance, which was followed by a round of applause.
President Bollinger thanked Chancellor Mestas for hosting the Regents' Meeting
and commented on the beauty and pleasant atmosphere of the Flint campus.
State Budget Requests - All Three Campuses
Ann Arbor Campus. Provost Cantor reported that the Ann Arbor campus had
recently been reaccredited by the North Central Association. She expressed thanks to state
legislators for the 5.7% funding increase for the current fiscal year, which, combined with
the 4.8% increase for the previous year, had allowed the University to keep its annual
tuition increase below 3% for two years in a row, compared to a national average increase
of 5% overall and 4.4% for public, 4-year universities.
Regarding the reaccreditation effort, Provost Cntor reported that the University had
pursued a "special emphasis" on the topic of interdisciplinary and collaborative work at
the University. Four working groups, coordinated by Mr. John Godfrey, had been
formed to examine how collaborative and interdisciplinary work allows people to take
full advantage of the campus's intellectual and social richness. The reaccreditation had
been granted with no contingency.
Provost Cantor observed that the reaccreditation team had praised the University's
atmosphere of intellectual freedom, and she said that "the dynamic coexistence of two
successful traditions, decentralization and connectivity, helps to distinguish the
University of Michigan as an international leader in higher education." She observed
that the state budget request reflects the theme of connectivity and attempts to build on
the University's social and intellectual nimbleness. It examines the mutual benefits
bestowed on both undergraduates and faculty from interaction and immersion in each
other's world.


103




October Meeting, 2000


The University is seeking an increase of 6% in state appropriation with two special
emphases that reflect the theme of the reaccreditation exercise: enhancing the contexts
within which faculty and students interact through such themes as economic and
environmental sustainability and expanding undergraduate residential living experiences
in keeping with the theme of providing learning environments that stretch beyond the
traditional classroom.
President Bollinger observed that the accreditation experience had been very
meaningful and that the University had been gratified by the reactions of the
distinguished members of the visiting accrediting team. He pointed out that in response
to concerns about the cost of higher education, the average tuition increase during the
four years of his administration has been limited to 3.3%, which is the lowest in
decades. Tuition for a resident undergraduate student, which is an "unbelievable
bargain," is only 25% of the cost of a comparable education at a private university.
Dearborn Campus. Chancellor Little observed that the Dearborn campus is
preparing for an anticipated growth rate of 3% per year for the next few years. The
central focus of the budget request involves strengthening and broadening the faculty
and reducing the percentage of adjunct faculty. Program growth will be examined and
targeted in specific areas to enhance the campus's ability to meet the educational needs
of southeast Michigan.  Information technology needs will be addressed and
interdisciplinary and community-outreach initiatives will be expanded as well. The
total request is for a base increase of $2,785,000 and a one-time additional allocation of
$750,000 for information technology.
Flint Campus. Chancellor Mestas indicated that the Flint campus request focuses
on four areas: continuing to provide top-quality undergraduate and graduate education
at an affordable price; incrementally strengthening new academic program initiatives;
expanding informational and instructional technology, especially in academic areas; and
enhancing community outreach efforts to the City of Flint and the surrounding area. He
noted that the University of Michigan-Flint is one of the most valuable resources in an
area that has many challenges and that the University needs to continue contributing to
the development of the Flint area.
Chancellor Mestas reported that an enrollment management study has been
completed, and the survey's recommendations will serve as the basis for discussion,
involving all elements of the campus community, about the future of the University.
Regent Taylor moved approval of the state budget request for the Ann Arbor
Campus. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Newman moved approval of the state budget request for the Dearborn
Campus. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Newman moved approval of the state budget request for the Flint Campus.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.  Vice President Tedesco submitted the Minutes of the meeting of
September 21-22, 2000.


104




October Meeting, 2000


Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Plant Extension,
Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000
from Single Sources from June 16, 2000 through September 15, 2000. He noted that
the Office of Human Resources and Affirmative Action has received a grant from the
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service as part of a joint effort with Michigan State
University and AFSCME to foster more cooperative efforts between the union and the
universities, improve organization effectiveness and communication, and eliminate the
conflict inherent in the grievance process.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established, September
1-30, 2000.
University of Michigan Health System.        There was no report regarding the
University of Michigan Health System.
Student Affairs. There was no report from the Division of Student Affairs.
UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that Dr. Camron Amin, an assistant
professor of history, had recently received a major grant from the National Endowment
for the Humanities to develop a Middle Eastern Studies Source Book in collaboration
with colleagues from two other universities. He also reported on the accomplishments
of Ms. Bethany Bran, a student in the Honors Program at the UM-Dearborn.
UM-Flint. There was no additional report from the Flint campus.
Michigan Student Assembly. Mr. Hideki Tsutsumi, chair of MSA, noted that he
would send a report via email.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted Reports on Voluntary
Support for September 2000.
Earl B. Abramson, Northfield, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ $ 5,000
Adac Plastics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 15,000
A. L. S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  11,650
American Academy of Sleep Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota
for the Michael S. Aldrich Endowment in the Medical School.......................... 5,000
American Accounting Association, Sarasota, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  18,363
American Association of Orthodontists, St. Louis, Missouri
for research  in  the School of Dentistry.............................................  7,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  96,301
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  40,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  149,980
American Industrial Hygiene Association Foundation, Fairfax, Virginia
for research in the School of Public Health.........................................  6,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  24,609
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 25,000


105




October Meeting, 2000


Anonymous Donor
for support in the Medical School................................................ 35,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 39,333
Bank One, N.A., Flint
for the Flint Banker's Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 7,000
Joel I. Bennett, Los Angeles, California
65 shares of various corporate common stock
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 5,161
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................................ 60,000
Margaret Bertsch Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 10,774
BP Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts..................................................... 6,700
Barry Briskin, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 10,200
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine.................... 18,000
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
John T. Buck, Farmington
for the Golf Hole Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 11,760
Ian R. Bund, Ann Arbor
650 shares of Genomic Solutions common stock
for the support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine and
for the Nichols Arboretum Gateway Garden Fund and the Harrison L. Morton Fund........ 5,934
David M. Bunzel, New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 5,000
Gilbert and Mary Burford Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable
Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................... 5,000
Mildred Todd Burns Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 50,000
David E. A. Carson, Bridgeport, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration.................................  5,000
Chin-un Chang, Taipei, Taiwan
for the John R. Griffith Fund in the School of Public Health........................... 80,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.....................................  20,368
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in  the School of Dentistry.......................................... 5,000
William B. Corlis, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
Peter B. Corr Trust
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,000
Cott Beverages USA, San Antonio, Texas
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund........................ 6,750
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School..............................................  118,923
Norman Dahn Estate
for the Norman J. Dahn Endowed Scholarship in the Dental School.................... 250,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship...................................... 5,000
Anne Ellis DeLaney, New York, New York
for support in the School of Art and Design......................................... 5,000
Beverly Delaney, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
46,710 shares of Bestfoods common stock
for the Hans W. Vahlteich Professorship,
for the Ella and Hans Vahlteich Research Fund, and
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy....................... 3,352,902
Albin G. Dembowski, Bloomfield, Connecticut
2,350 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Albin G. and Alice T. Dembowski Endowed Fund........ 136,833


106




October Meeting, 2000


Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................... 38,750
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering................... 19,100
Diversified Career and Educational Services, Detroit
for minority and female scholarships and
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering...... 16,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
400 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Professorship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 28,914
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 12,132
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................ 5,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................... 10,000
Joan L. Exline, Hattiesburg, Missouri
for the Frederick J. Barten Scholarship in the School of Public Health................... 20,680
FMC Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the FMC Foundation MBA Fellowship Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Seed Research Initiative Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 60,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment
and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts,
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................ 400,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  212,689
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 19,000
Gloria Niemeyer Francke, Washington, DC
for the Gloria Francke Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............................. 10,000
Freudenberg-NOK, Plymouth
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............. 7,500
Garbose Family Foundation, Gwynedd Valley, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
Carolyn A. Gatward Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 5,000
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for the GE Faculty for the Future Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies..................................................... 75,000
General Mills Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the employee matching  gifts.................................................  50,100
General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the CECS Discovering Connections Conference Fund at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 35,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
General Motors Foundation, Ann Arbor
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  16,275
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  24,946
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for support in  the M edical School................................................. 5,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Goldstein Family Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............. 7,500
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 50,000
Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and Affiliated Trusts, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000


107




October Meeting, 2000


Greater Phoenix University of Michigan Alumni Club, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Greater Phoenix University of Michigan Club Scholarship..................... 10,000
Handleman Company, Troy
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 75,000
Lula M. Hile Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.................................... 9,125
Hollywood Greyhound Track, Hollywood, Florida
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for support in the Medical School................ 10,500
LaRue T. Hosmer, Tuscaloosa, Alabama
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Endowment in the College of Pharmacy............. 10,000
IBM Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Information and
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 221,567
IBM International Foundation, Armonk, New York
for electrical and computer science engineering fellowships in
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  23,160
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarship and fellowship support in the College of Engineering................... 146,900
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................ 39,882
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  30,000
David B. Kaplan, Beverly Hills, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Competitive Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
John H. Kellogg, M.D., Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School......................... 10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Schools of Information and Nursing............... 157,200
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Pasadena, California
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 10,000
Margaret W. Kirkpatrick Estate
for the Margaret Kirkpatrick Student Aid Fund..................................... 88,954
William L. Kopp, Jackson, Missouri
225 shares of EMC Corp/Mass common stock
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 20,996
John R. Koza, Los Altos, California
2,858 shares of Symphonix Devices, Inc., common stock
for the Center for the Study of Complex Systems.................................... 22,950
Bert N. LaDu, Jr., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Frank A. Lamberson Estate
for the Merle Lawrence Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 25,000
Law Offices of Stewart A. Feldman & Associates L.L.P., Houston, Texas
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 5,000
Norman M. Leff, New York, New York
for the Dale E. and Norman M. Leff Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 7,500
Ted Tai-Sen Lin Charitable Foundation, North Haven, Connecticut
for History of Art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 10,000
Lucent Technologies, Inc., New Providence, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 141,000
Lucent Technologies Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Seely Brown Technology and Society Lecture Gift Fund in
the School of Information and for the European Business Conference Fund............... 7,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 5,000
Robert J. MacDonald Estate
for the Wallace J. Bonk Memorial Fund in the School of Information,


108




October Meeting, 2000


for the Robert J. MacDonald Music Library Collection Endowment, and
for other support in the University Library....................................... 126,816
Matterhorn Travel Service, Inc., Annapolis, Maryland
for support in the School of Music............................................... 19,232
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
200 shares of Cardinal Health, Inc., common stock
for the Research in College Teaching and Learning Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 17,631
Hudson Mead, Grosse Pointe
92 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School.................................................... 5,100
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the University  Library............................................. 27,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for undergraduate scholarships in the College of Engineering.......................... 15,000
William E. Modlin, Decatur, Illinois
200 shares of A.G. Edwards, Inc., common stock
for the Marching Band Scholarship in the School of Music............................ 10,231
Clarence D. Moll Trust
for research in the Medical School............................................... 30,033
Ronald Moritz Estate
for the Timothy Kirk Fund in the Medical School.................................... 8,300
John C. and Sally S. Morley Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 50,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
900 shares of Boeing Company common stock
for the Mortenson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 51,216
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the David and Linda Moscow Prize Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000
MWG, Inc., High Point, North Carolina
for research  in  the  M edical School...............................................  10,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 5,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 45,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School................................................  8,750
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division.................................... 11,710
National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
James C. Neuhauser, Irvine, California
for support in the School of Business Administration.................................  5,000
Ann Landwirth Nickoll, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the  School of Dentistry.............................................. 6,400
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Research Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center...............................................  25,000
Northstar Photonics, Inc., Plymouth, Minnesota
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 15,000
John M. Olin Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Olin Center for Law and Economics Fund in the Law School................... 130,000
Richard Oppenheim, Woodland Hills, California
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 33,320
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  24,998
Alvin Owsley, Houston, Texas
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 40,000


109




October Meeting, 2000


Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
50 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 6,558
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Pharmacy and
for support in the Institute for Human Adjustment.................................. 58,500
L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
607 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Nichols Arboretum, Julie Norris Post Heathdale Funds......................... 30,492
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 12,675
PricewaterhouseCoopers L.L.P., Tampa, Florida
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................. 8,000
George B. Rabb, Brookfield, Illinois
for the Charles F. Walker Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 5,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
RF Micro-Devices, Greensboro, North Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 38,500
P. Anthony Ridder, San Jose, California
453 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 24,972
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School................... 8,116
Christopher A. Roberts, Findlay, Ohio
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry...................... 5,000
Mrs. Irving Rose, Bingham Farms
for the Audrey Rose Fund in the School of Music................................... 10,000
Jeff Roth, Accord, New York
for the Mark Roth Memorial Garden Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........... 5,000
Craig H. Ruff, Okemos
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.............................. 5,000
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Endowment in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 979,704
Robert G. and Susan E. Schuur Trust
for support of the  Law   School.................................................... 5,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Sea Grant/Industry Consortium Fund and support in the College of Engineering and
for geological sciences and physics support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 40,000
Henry B. Shepard, Jr., Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 5,000
Carol Ann Sherman, Southfield
for linguistics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., M.D., Trust
for the Nichols Arboretum Gateway Garden Fund.................................... 5,000
Stanley A. Smith, Okemos
for the Orthodontic Fund for Excellence in the School of Dentistry..................... 10,200
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 457,000
Robert E. Springer, Whitmore Lake
for the Ninfa and Robert Springer Family Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan............................... 237,225
Richard B. Starrak, Chester, New Hampshire
100 shares of Kimberly-Clark Corporation common stock
for the Vick Heyliger Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................ 5,100
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 5,000
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the A. Alfred Taubman Endowment in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning............................................ 5,000,000
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 16,000


110




October Meeting, 2000


TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research and other support in the College of Engineering,
for the Seating Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute. and
for employee matching gifts................................................... 141,225
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 20,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae  Council Scholarship............................................ 5,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Philadelphia Scholarship............... 10,000
University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship......................... 5,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School................................................ 7,000
Volvo Car Components Corporation, Goteborg, Sweden
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................... 5,190
Margaret E. Waid, Fort Pierce, Florida
2,461 shares of SBC Communications common stock
for the Dr. Margaret Waid Charitable Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School..................................... 105,515
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
for the Nancy W. Walls Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  125,000
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the Harold A. Furlong Professorship in the Medical School......................... 5,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems and
for the Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 150,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 70,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,000
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy........................ 5,000
Zondervan Publishing House, Grand Rapids
for  W U O M................................................................... 6,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Gary Beckman, Ann Arbor
39 books for the Near Eastern Studies Resource Room
Rosemary Bodley, Ann Arbor
four assorted knitting machines and related accessories for UM Knitwits
Cohn's Furniture, Muskegon Heights
office furniture for the School of Dentistry Outreach Program
IBM, Southfield
two IBM laptop computers for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Management
John R. Laird, Ann Arbor
a sailboat and related equipment for Camp Michigania
William C. Matthews, Bay Village, Ohio
a sailboat and related equipment for Camp Michigania
Primavera Systems, Inc., Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania
software for the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department
Skidmore, Inc., Southfield
an IRIS graphics color printer for the School of Art and Design
Macklin Smith, Ann Arbor
one encyclopedia consisting of 18 volumes and three supplemental volumes for the Clements
Library


111




October Meeting, 2000


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Thomas Bezigian, Cicero, New York           Metals Aerospace International, Whittier, California
Barry A. Bogin, Oak Park                    Motorola, Aurora, Colorado
Robert E. Grese, Ann Arbor                  Elizabeth E. Mumm, Sun City, Arizona
Thomas J. LaForest, Oldsmar, Florida        Joyce A. Woody, Lincoln Park
Stanley W. Larmee, Jr., Washington, DC
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted a number of Personnel Actions and
Personnel Reports. She commented on the appointment of Susan Walz as professor of
public policy in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy. Executive Vice President
Kasdin highlighted the appointment of Barbara Butterfield as associate vice president
for human resources and affirmative action and chief human resources officer. Vice
President Wilbanks called attention to the appointment of Michael Waring as executive
director of federal relations and executive director of the Washington, D.C. office.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective November 1, 2000
Santos-Burgoa, Carlos, Ph.D., Professor of Epidemology, School of Public Health
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 2001-May 1, 2005
Waltz, Susan Eileen, Ph.D., Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stach, Robert W., Chair, Department of Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1-December 31, 2000
Weissert, William G., Chair, Department of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2000
Whitman, Christina L.B., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Law School, January 1-August 31, 2001
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Becker, Mark P., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School
of Public Health, also appointed Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000
Chupp, Timothy E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dixon, Jack E., from Minor J. Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry, Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, to Minor
J. Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry and Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure,
Medical School, and Co-Director, Life Sciences Institute, July 1, 2001
Engelke, David R., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Assistant Dean for
Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies, Medical School, October 1, 2000


112




October Meeting, 2000


Hero, Alfred O., III, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Professor
of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Mastrangelo, Carlos H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Myers, Steven, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Co-Chair, Department of
Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1-December 31, 2000, and Chair,
Department of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Page, Scott E., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Raudenbush, Stephen W., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, also appointed
Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Studier, Eugene H., Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Co-Chair, Department of Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-December 31, 2000
Whitman, Christina L.B., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, also appointed Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Xie, Yu, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Gough, Maria E., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave
extended beyond one year
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Asgari, Mahdi, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dickinson, Mark E.T., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Essene, Eric J., William C. Kelly Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, five-year term, September 1, 2000
Fox, Merritt Baker, Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Reimann, Mathias W., Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Weston, Thomas A., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Clark, Noreen M., Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health, School of Public Health,
April 1, 2000-April 30, 2005
Warner, Kenneth E., Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professor of Public Health, School of Public
Health, April 1, 2000-April 30, 2005
Other Transactions
Beyer, Bonnie M., Associate Dean, School of Education, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Bums, Peggy, Assistant Dean for Communications and Marketing, October 15, 2000-October 14, 2003
Butterfield, Barbara, Associate Vice President for Human Resources and Affirmative Action & Chief
Human Resource Officer, February 1, 2001
Dixon, Jack E., Co-Director, Life Sciences Institute, July 1, 2001
Emr, Scott D., Co-Director, Life Sciences Institute, July 1, 2002
Waring, Michael A., from Associate Vice President for Government Relations and Executive Director
Washington, D.C. Office to Executive Director of Federal Relations and Director of the
Washington, D.C. Office, October 22, 2000
White, Casey Barbara-Ann, Assistant Dean for Medical Education, Medical School, November 1, 2000


113




October Meeting, 2000


COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Haig, Andrew J., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice L. Rowell Huesmann, term expired
Kuhn, John E., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Charles A. Reynolds, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Walton, Kendall L., September 1-December 31, 2000, vice Carroll Smith-Rosenberg, leave of absence
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Cherry, Meghan M., student representative, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2002, vice Sachit Malde, term
expired
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Angur, Madhukar G., July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Keith A. Moreland, term expired
Ellis, Dennis F., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Peethambaran Kartha, term expired
Taghaboni-Dutta, Fataneh, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002, vice Kalyan Raman, term expired
Velthouse, Betty A., July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001, vice Madhukar G. Angur, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adler, Peggy L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Aikens, James E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Arenas, Juan D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
September 17, 2001-September 15, 2001
Augusta, Barbara M., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Badhwar, Vinay, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Barnes, Jill M., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Beke, Tibor, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Best, Cathryn A., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Biddlecom, Ann E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Bini, Gilberto, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Blackwell, Ann, M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Bouamane, Loubna, Maitrise, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Bogart, Pamela S., M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Bowen, Eugene J., B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Bownik, Joanna M., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Bredle, Jason M., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Brehob, Mark W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Brown, Donald D., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Byon, Andrew S., M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Calixto, Tatiana M., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Chabot, Benjamin R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003


114




October Meeting, 2000


Chaves, Maria Del Sol, Licenciatura, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Clifford, John H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Cooling, Laura, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Coulter, Kevin P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Cullum-Swan, Betsy, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Dabak, Shubhangi, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Davis, Kirk L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Delbanco, Francesca B., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Delgado, Jose E., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
DeVries, Heather C., B.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
deVries, Dan N., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Dickinson, Mark E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dmitrieva, Nina B., Master, Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Drouin, Jacqueline, M.S., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, November 13, 2000-November 13, 2003
Duran, Mesut, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Technology, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2002
Dyer, Judy A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Dzhamay, Anton, M.Phil., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Eguia, Inmaculada, B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Eliav, Yaron Z., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Farkas, Gavril M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Ferrer, Patricia, M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Florido-Berrocal, Joaquin, B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Foth, Tatyana E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Franz, Michael G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, August 13, 2000-June 30, 2001
Fulcher, Ian, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Garcia, Sofia, Licenciado, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Garrity, Thomas A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gell, Nancy M., M.P.H., Lecturer II in Inteflex, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Gessner, Ingrid S., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Gibney, Angela C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Glass, Jennifer M.B., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Gomez, Pedro, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Grabner-Coronel, Linda L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


115




October Meeting, 2000


Graff, David S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Hagen, Gottfried J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Turkish Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Han, Lixing, Ph.D., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1,2000-May 31,2001
Hiramatsu, Kazuko, B.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Holbrook, Latisha L., B.F.A., Lecturer II in Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Hurshman, Amy R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Hyde, Olivia, B.Sc., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Infante, Cecilia A., Ph.D., Lecturer III in English Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Jackson, Trachette L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Johnson, Nicole S., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Jones, Joni L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Kahn, Joel A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Kamtekar, Rachana, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Karahashi, Fumi, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sumerian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Karam-Hage, Maher A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School,
August 4, 2000-August 3, 2001
Kim, Grace O., Ph.D., Lecturer in Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Kirk, Jason C., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Kwak, Nojin, M.A., Instructor in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Le, Theodore T., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 11, 2000-August 31, 2001
Lee, Soo-Young, Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Levinson, Julian A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Liu, Mingyan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineeering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Low, Lisa K., M.S., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Luchs, Kathryn Brackett, M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Luebbe, Christopher D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Luo, Tao, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Lutman, Jennifer A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Malachowska-Pasek, Ewa, M.A., Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Mannfors, Berit E., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Manuel, Anne M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Marcocci, Cristiana, Laurea, Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Markov, Igor L., M.A., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Martin, Xavier A., License, Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Matos-Martin, Eduardo, B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Maxwell, Donald R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000


116




October Meeting, 2000


McNamara, Christopher E., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
McNeal, Charlea T., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Meredith, Michael J., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Mesa, Vilma M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, September 1, 2000 -August 31, 2002
Middleton, Leonard M., M.B.A., Lecturer in Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Miller, Peter D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Mitnick, Keith P., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Morgan, Laurie A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies and Assistant Professor of Sociology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Murad, Sharlet, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
September 11, 2000-August 31, 2001
Murakami, Shin, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Murdoch-Kinch, Carol A., D.D.S., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Murphy, Shannon A., M.S., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Nagy, Kristin M., M.S., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, August 28, 2000-July 31, 2001
Nas, Paula L., M.A., Lecturer in Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Nelson, Patrick W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Nichols, Thomas E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2005
Noorani, Yaseen A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Classical Arabic and Persian Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
O'Keeffe, Patrick P., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Obrecht, Michelle L., M.A., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Ohrstrom, Barbara L., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Oka, Mayumi, M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Ozdenoren, Emre, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Prendergast de Santos, J.M., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Padgett, Charles S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Pan, Ronghua, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Papademetriou, Anastasios G., M.Div., Lecturer I in Introduction to Religion, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Parzuchowski, Pawel G., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Peereboom, Lars, B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Pennington, Michele L., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School,
August 23, 2000-August 22, 2001
Peters-Golden, Holly, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Prince, Mark E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Rhea, Karen, M.S., Lecturer III in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Rodriguez-Ramos, Juan L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 15, 2000-August 14, 2001


117




October Meeting, 2000


Rosenblum, Katherine L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Rosic, Marija, B.A., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Roulston, Diane, Ph.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, August 7, 2000-July 31, 2001
Rubadeau, Patrice M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Sanchez, Victoria, Licenciada, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Schlossberg, Betina, M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Schippers, Eric D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Schmidt, Mary A., A.B.D., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Schnabel, Kai U., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Schneider, Laura F., Laurea, Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Schoenfeld, Philip S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 11, 2000-September 10, 2001
Schreier, Shelly Gail-Zeff, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Sinno, Neige A., License, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Skalsey, Mark A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Skandera, Mark A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Skurski, Julie A., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Anthropology and Lecturer III in History, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Spinweber, Carol A., B.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Splivallo, Anna, B.A., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Steams, Carola H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Steichmann, Lisa L., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Stuligross, David P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Sullivan, Michael G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Takayama, Shuichi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Tanner, Wesley B., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Tate, Steven C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Studies, UM-Dearbom School of Education,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2003
Tolinski, Michael J., M.A., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Toussaint, Loren, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
van Olphen, Juliana E., M.P.H., Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, September 1-December 31, 2000
VanDerPloeg, Glen M., A.L.M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Vederman, Elizabeth N., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Von Herder, Dorothea M., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Walsh, Elissa R., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Wheeler, Margaret T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Willette, Thomas C., Ph.D., Lecturer III in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003


118




October Meeting, 2000


Williams, Keith L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Wilson, Dennis E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Jazz), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004
Wilson, Elaine S., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, January 1, 2001-April 30, 2001
Winn, David J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Wisniewski, Walli A., M.A., Lecturer in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Wodka, Michael A., B.F.A., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Wong, Cara J., Ph.D., Instructor in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Wynarsky, George T., Ph.D., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Yang, Ming, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Yang, Zhenhua, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, one-year term,
September 1, 2000
Ye, Qinshan, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Yu, Gang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Zhang, Wei, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Amidon, Kevin S., from Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and
Literatures to Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Anderson, Frank J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2000
Cabana, Michael D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 2000
Falk, Michael L., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000
Farjo, Qais A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Medical School, July 24, 2000
Gould, Kari L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2000
Granzow-De La Cerda, Inigo, Assistant Curator, Herbarium also appointed Lecturer II in Agriculture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Harter, Donald E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2000
Hubbs, Nadine M., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Leicher, Sheryl J., from Lecturer II in Technical Communication, College of Engineering to Lecturer II in
English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2000
Nysenholc, Judith, from Lecturer III in Holocaust Studies and Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies to
Lecturer III in Holocaust Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Schumer, Beverly A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education
and Human Services, September 1, 2000
Standifer, James A., from Professor of Music (Music Education) with tenure, School of Music, Lecturer in
Education, School of Education, and Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Music (Music Education) with tenure, School of Music,
September 1, 2000


119




October Meeting, 2000


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Beaudoin, Allan R. Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
May 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Christensen, A. Kent, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
May 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Fortner, Richard W., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of
Management, January 1-April 31, 2001
Gold, Martin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Gray, Donald H., Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Hawkins, Joseph E. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Jackson, Murray E., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Juni, Elliot, Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Atwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering
and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2000
Koran, Andrew III, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Livermore, Shaw Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information and Library Studies,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Sanders, T. Michael, Professor Emeritus of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Shafter, Edward M. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Steinhoff, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2000
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor Emerita of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Valenstein, Elliot S., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Weikart, Phyllis S., Associate Professor Emerita of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 1999-August 31, 2000
Whitehouse, Frank Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, Medical School,
September 1-December 31, 2000
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Schneider, Carl E., Chauncey Stillman Professor for Ethics, Morality, and the Practice of Law and
Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Akerlof, Carl W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Axelson, Elizabeth R., Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001


120




October Meeting, 2000


Bardenstein, Carol B., Assistant Professor of Arabic Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Berger, Carl F., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Blaum, Caroline S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Bonner, Michael D., Associate Professor of Islamic History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Burch, John B., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Mollusks, Museum of Zoology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2001
Chang, Chun-Shu, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Chapman, J. Wehrley, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Cherng, John G., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Cho, Eun-Su, Assistant Professor of Korean Language and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Croxton, Tom A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement furlough,
January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Dandekar, Hemalata, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Daniels, J. Yolande, Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, outside teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Drake, William D., Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, without tenure,
School of Public Health, and Professor of Urban, Technical and Environmental Planning, without
tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dufey, Gunter, Professor of Corporate Strategy, International Business, and Finance, with tenure, School
of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Eklund, Stephen A., Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Ekotto, Frieda, Assistant Professor of French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Fomin, Sergey, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Forsdyke, Sara L., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Friedman, Richard D., Ralph W. Aigler Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Gaines, Kevin K., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Garvin, Charles D., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement furlough,
January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gelman, Susan A., Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Gomez, Luis O., Charles 0. Hucker Professor of Buddhist Studies, Professor of Asian Languages and
Cultures, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology and Religious Studies, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000, and duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Gordon, Michael D., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Computer and Information Systems,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Gregerson, Linda K., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hales, Thomas C., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Hall, Richard L., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000


121




October Meeting, 2000


Harris, David R., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Heinonen, Juha, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Heller, Michael A., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching assignment,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hirth, Richard A., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Hultquist, Donald E., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Huth, Paul K., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Jackson, Sherman A., Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Jones, Kimberly R., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Juster, Susan M., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Kamisar, Yale, Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2004, and outside teaching
assignment, January 1-May 31, 2001
Kartha, C. Peethambaran, Professor of Quantitative Methods in Management, with tenure, UM-Flint
School of Management, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Levine, Steven P., Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Lieberman, Victor B., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Lin, Xihong, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Lott, John W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2001
Mars, Joan R., Assistant Professor of Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, outside
teaching assignment, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Martin, James E., Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public
Health, retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 2000, and duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Mastrangelo, Carlos H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, personal leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Merlin, Roberto D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Meyer, David E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Mindell, David P., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Associate Curator, Museum of Zoology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Montoya, Maria E., Assistant Professor of Latino Studies and Assistant Professor of History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Muir, Dana M., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Olsen, Laura J., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Park, Albert F., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Pedley, John G., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Pfalzer, Lucinda A., Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Pijanowski, Eugene M., Professor of Art, without tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Pinkard, Nichole, Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


122




October Meeting, 2000


Price, Albert C., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Rahme, Joseph G., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Regan, Donald H., William W. Bishop Jr. Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, and Professor of Philosophy, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2001
Robins, Thomas G., Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Rogers, Priscilla S., Associate Professor of Business Communication, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Roth, Michael A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Savit, Robert S., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Schottenfeld, David, John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology and Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Schwarz, Norbert W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Selig, Suzanne M., Professor of Health Care, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Seyhun, Hasan N., Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Shammas, Anton, Professor of Middle East Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Shehab, Joslyn M., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, child care leave,
September 25-October 17, 2000
Siegmund, Stefanie B., Assistant Professor of History and Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Slemrod, Joel B., Paul W. McCracken Professor of Business Economics and Professor of Business
Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of
Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Smith, Karen E., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, Professor of History, with tenure,
and Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Smock, Pamela J., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Somanathan, Rohini, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Steel, Duncan G., Peter S. Fuss Professor of Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Stein, Karen F., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Stembridge, John R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Szabo, Zoltan, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Teneketzis, Demosthenis, Professor of Electrical and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Tsoffar, Ruth, Assistant Professor of Hebrew Language and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Vakalo, Emmanuel-George, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, extended sick leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Wasserman, Kimberly M., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, personal leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Weingarten, Helen, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2000


123




October Meeting, 2000


White, Michelle J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Witke, Charles, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2001
Wolfenzon, Daniel, Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, duty off campus,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Wright, Susan P., Lecturer III in History of Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 16-December 31, 2000
Wu, Chien-Fu J., Harry Clyde Carver Professor of Statistics and Professor of Statistics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Yang, Wen-Jei, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, retirement furlough, January -December 31, 2001
Yao, York-Peng E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Young, Ernest P., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective October 2000
McLoughlin, Angela L. Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, personal leave,
August 14, 1999-August 13, 2001 (previously reported as August 14, 1999-August 13, 2000)
Stevenson, Harold W., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, January 1, 2000-June 30, 2001 (previously reported as January 1-June 30, 2000)
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective October 2000
Hymes, Robert W., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, previously reported as sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Lunn, Joe H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Badran, Sarah, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 31, 2000
Barbon, Maria S., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Baumgardner, Kirk R., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 2000
Cox, Taylor Jr., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management, with
tenure, School of Business Administration, December 31, 2000
El-Magharbel, Ibrahim, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 31, 2000
Farrehi, Janice G., Clinical Instructor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 12, 2000
Gee, Gilbert C., Assistant Professor of Health Care, UM-Flint College of Health Professions and Studies,
December 31, 2000
Harmon, Carroll M., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, September 26, 2000
Latham, Michael R., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Makoni, Sinfree, Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
McDonnell, W. Michael, Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 13, 2000
McDonough, Susan C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, August 31, 2000
McGovern, Patrick S., Assistant Professor of Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, July 31, 2000


124




October Meeting, 2000


Payne-Rojkjaer, Lisa, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2000
Pfister, Michael E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, October 20, 2000
Ritter, Claudia M., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2000
Sandler, Kevin S., Lecturer I in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2000
Sarkarzadeh, Amir A., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 2000
Thompson, Rex E., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, August 31, 1999
Weinstein, Michael I., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Yahanda, Alan M., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, August 31, 2000
Retired
Owings, Clyde L., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, August 31, 2000
Solomon, William R., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2000
Townsend, Leroy B., Albert B. Prescott Professor and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure,
College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literatures, Science,
and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Weingarten, Helen, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
December 31, 2000
Term Completed
Baron, Desiree A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, April 30, 2000
Coulter, Kevin P., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Hirshbein, Peretz, Lecturer II in History of Medicine, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Hub, Eric, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2000
McGee, Sean H., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2000
McKim, Lamont M., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Milne, James S., Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 31, 2000
Ofstedal, Mary B., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 1999
Palen, Joseph J., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Rajan, Gita, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Ramsden, Todd Gregory, Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
December 31, 1999
Tecchio, Monica, Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 1999
Deceased
Bird, Gary R., Assistant Professor of Music (Musical Theatre), School of Music, September 12, 2000
McAuliffe, Mary, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 14, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective October 2000
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Kozlik, Rebecca H., student representative, July 1, 2000-December 31, 2001 (previously reported as
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002)
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Foster, Thomas C., July 1, 2000-June 20, 2003, vice Janet A. Weiss, term expired (previously reported as
vice Anita K. Barry, term expired)
Retirement Memoirs.        Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption four
retirement memoirs.


125




October Meeting, 2000


Paul S. Fancher, Jr., senior research scientist in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on September 15,
2000.
Paul Fancher received his B.S. degree in engineering mechanics, his M.S.E. degree
in instrumentation, and his professional degree (INS.E.) in instrumentation engineering
from the University of Michigan in 1953, 1959, and 1964 respectively. He joined the
University in 1957 as a research assistant at the Institute of Science and Technology
(IST) and progressed to an associate research engineer. In 1969, he joined the Highway
Safety Research Institute, where he was promoted to research scientist in 1970 and senior
research scientist in 1997. From 1986-89, Mr. Fancher served as the acting head of the
Engineering Research Division of the University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute and, until his retirement, as the division's associate head.  He has served as
co-chair of the Summer Conference on the Mechanics of Heavy Duty Truck Systems
since 1992.
Mr. Fancher sought to improve analytical understanding of complex mechanical
systems, particularly as they relate to automobile and heavy truck safety improvements.
His modeling and analysis concepts have aided the effort by automobile and heavy truck
makers around the world to develop "active safety" technologies meant to assist the
driver in safe and convenient control of the motor vehicle. During the 1990s, his
research focused on adaptive cruise control and collision warning applications; he is a
leading analyst of these "intelligent" forms of active-safety technology. His research has
combined philosophical principles with scientific knowledge of human performance,
engineering mechanics, and control systems theory to effect remarkably simple schema
for representing the technologically-assisted driving process. His achievements were
honored in 1997 with the National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle
Research and Development, established by Congress as the highest national recognition
given in this field. He is a fellow of the Society of Automotive Engineers and served for
many years as the chair of its Vehicle Dynamics Forum Committee. He also held
leadership positions in the International Association for Vehicle System Dynamics, the
Transportation Research Board, and the International Standards Organization.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul S. Fancher, Jr., senior
research scientist emeritus.
Walter J. Loesche, D.M.D., Ph.D., the Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry,
professor of dentistry, Department of Biologic and Materials Sciences in the School of
Dentistry, and professor of microbiology in the Medical School, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 2000.
Dr. Loesche received his B.A. degree from Yale University in 1957, his D.M.D.
degree from Harvard School of Dental Medicine in 1961, his periodontal certificate from
Harvard-Forsyth in 1964, and his Ph.D. degree from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1967. While earning his degrees, he held various positions at Forsyth
Dental Center, Harvard School of Medicine, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He joined the faculty in 1969 as an associate professor of dentistry and in 1971 he was
appointed associate professor of microbiology in the Medical School. He was promoted
to professor of dentistry and professor of microbiology in 1974 and served as director of
research in the School of Dentistry from 1987-89. He was appointed the Marcus L. Ward
Professor of Dentistry in 1996.


126




October Meeting, 2000


Dr. Loesche's work was key in changing our understanding of both cavities and
periodontal disease by recognizing them as bacterial infections. His research involving
bacterial anaerobes and their role in periodontal disease lead to the use of metronidazole
or doxycycline as treatment alternatives to surgical intervention for these conditions. In
recognition of his work, in 1988 a new species of gram-negative anaerobic rods isolated
from the oral cavity was named Bacteroides loescheii.
An extremely creative and productive researcher, Dr. Loesche has had continuous
funding since 1970 and has published 3 textbooks, over 170 peer-reviewed articles, and
over 50 chapters and invited reviews.  He has served on the editorial boards of
professional journals and on numerous school, university, and national committees. He
currently serves as president of the International Society for Breath Odor Research.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Walter J.
Loesche the Marcus L. Ward Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, professor emeritus of
dentistry, and professor emeritus of microbiology.
Harrison L. Morton, Ph.D., professor of forest pathology, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty status on October 31, 2000.
A native of Minnesota, Professor Morton received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Minnesota in 1961, 1964, and 1967, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of forest pathology in 1966 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor of forest pathology in 1978.
Professor Morton served as chair of the forestry department and chair of the fisheries,
forestry, and wildlife program. He also served as director, University of Michigan
Nichols Arboretum, from  1986-99, acting dean from  1988-89, associate dean for
administration from 1990-92, interim dean 1991-92, and associate dean, School of
Natural Resources and Environment from 1992-99.
Professor Morton's teaching and research focused on the area of tree diseases. He
taught introductory and advanced forest pathology courses to students interested in forest
production and tree health. He also introduced an undergraduate course in urban forestry,
encouraging many stuenouraging many students to pursue professional careers with municipalities and the
green industry. With a basic interest in microbiology, Professor Morton's research
involved tdecay. Particularly interested in                 Michigan Christmas
trees, he described new major foliage diseases on Douglas-fir and unraveled the biology
and then disease control using chemical, cultural, and genetic resistance techniques.
Professor Morton served as director of Nichols Arboretum from 1986-99. In this
role, he initiated major programs in support of student research and established a Friends
group, a newsletter, and a volunteer docent organization. Through his leadership, funds
were raised to move the historic Burnham House to the Arb where it now functions as the
Reader Educational Center and home for Arboretum staff. Within the community,
Professor Morton instituted Ann Arbor's "tree clinics" and lent his professional expertise
to homeowners, UM staff, the Michigan Forestry and Park Association, and the legal
profession in the areas of liability and valuation.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Harrison L. Morton
professor emeritus of forest pathology.
H. Dennis Smith, professor of music (trombone), retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Smith received his B.M. degree in music education from the University of
Southern California in 1960. He held teaching positions at Brigham Young University


127




October Meeting, 2000


and the University of Utah (1964-68), the Music Academy of the West-Santa Barbara
(1965-68), California Institute for the Arts (1971-74), California State College-Fullerton
(1973-74), Western Washington University (1974-79), and California State
University-Northridge (1979-80). He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1980
as an associate professor and was promoted to professor in 1986.
Before joining the faculty at the University of Michigan, Professor Smith held posts
as principal trombonist with the Utah Symphony Orchestra (1964-68), Detroit Symphony
Orchestra (1968-71), and the Los Angeles Philharmonic (1971-74). He is a former
member of the Los Angeles Brass Quintet, the University of Utah Brass Quintet,
Symphonic Metamorphosis (London Records), the Brass Arts Trio (University of Puget
Sound), and the Second City Chamber Series of Tacoma, Washington, and he was
founder and former member of the Brass Arts Quintet of New York. He was the principal
trombonist with the Toledo Symphony from 1982 until his retirement, performing over
40 concerts yearly.
Professor Smith was an exceptional and valuable teacher and mentor, able to attract
high quality students who were well trained musically and technically. Throughout his
years at Michigan, Professor Smith shared his talent by performing at numerous high
schools and community colleges in Michigan and Ohio. He was recognized as an
excellent musician and recording artist, whose most recent recording is "The All
American Trombone." Professor Smith was an exceptional colleague, a leader nationally
in the development of trombone repertoire, and a contributing member of the School of
Music community.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming H. Dennis Smith professor
emeritus of music (trombone).
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted three memorial statements for
three active faculty members.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death of Gary R. Bird, assistant professor of music (musical theatre), School of Music.
Professor Bird received his B.S. degree in theatre from Weber State University in
1976 and his M.F.A. degree in theatre from the University of Utah in 1979. He began his
professional career as assistant professor of theatre at Brigham Young University at
Hawaii in 1979, transferring to Utah State University in 1980. In 1991, Professor Bird
accepted a position at East Carolina University, where he taught until he joined the
faculty at the University of Michigan in 1994. He came to the School of Music with over
ten years of teaching experience in the musical theatre field and had directed more than
50 plays and musicals in academic, community, and professional settings.
His first production at the University of Michigan was Grand Hotel in April
1996, followed by The Mystery of Edwin Drood (October 1996), West Side Story (April
1998), Anything Goes (October 1998), and A Little Night Music (1999). The Ann Arbor
News heralded his direction of West Side Story as "an astonishing new spin on a
Broadway classic." In the spring of 2000, Professor Bird directed theatre department
students in a studio production of the musical Personals. He and the musical theatre
students were looking forward to producing a studio production of Sondheim's Assassins
in December 2000, which the department will continue in Professor Bird's honor. He
taught courses in musical theatre performance, a subject about which he was writing a
book.


128




October Meeting, 2000


As a teacher, Professor Bird influenced his students at all times.  A
much-repeated remembrance of him summarizes the feelings of many: "Professor Bird
helped me to grow as a person and as a performer. He helped me to reach heights I never
knew I could." A favorite with the students, however, was Professor Bird's unique sense
of humor and engaging smile.
Revered and respected by his friends and colleagues in the School of Music,
Professor Bird will be sorely missed by those who had the privilege of knowing him. His
sudden and premature death is an incalculable loss for the University community. As we
mourn the loss of this distinguished scholar and gifted artist, we unite in extending our
condolences to Professor Bird's children, Tyler, Chelsea, and Bethany; his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Robert Bird; and the rest of his family.
Cloyzelle K. Jones, Ed.D., professor of education, died on August 21, 2000.
Professor Jones received his Ed.D. degree from Wayne State University. He joined
the faculty of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in 1970. He was instrumental in the
growth of the education unit from a program in liberal arts, to a division of urban
education, and finally, to a school of education.
Professor Jones had a lifelong interest in urban education and was founder of the
National Urban Education Association. He was a frequent guest on local radio stations
as a commentator on urban education problems. He was an advisor to the Michigan
Detroit Association of Black Organizations, and New Detroit.
Professor Jones was a mentor for a generation of African-American students. He
was a frequent speaker in Detroit schools, a successful fundraiser for minority student
support, an advocate of alternative schools, and a member of several doctoral committees
at Wayne State University and the University of Michigan. He was a member of the
Council for Exceptional Children and Neighborhood Legal Services.
Hundreds of students benefited from Professor Jones' courses in multicultural
education. Unfortunately, Professor Jones' career was hampered by long term illness.
As we mourn the loss of this courageous faculty member, our condolences go to his
family members, Mr. and Mrs. Cloyzelle K. Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Derek Moss, Mr.
Kreigh V. Jones, Ms. Keitia Jones, Ms. Keli Jones, and Mr. Vernon W. Jones.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death on Monday, October 2, 2000, of Emmanuel-George Vakalo, associate professor
of architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.
Born in Athens, Greece, Professor Vakalo served in the Royal Greek Air Force
before coming to America to study. He first studied at Cornell University in Ithaca, New
York, receiving his bachelor's and master's degrees in architecture and his master's
degree in regional planning. He then moved to Ann Arbor to pursue a doctoral degree in
Urban, Technological, and Environmental Planning, which he received in 1985.
Professor Vakalo joined the architecture program faculty in 1979, where his
command of the art of teaching was recognized immediately. With gentle firmness and a
determination to be understood, Professor Vakalo remained enthusiastic and passionate
about teaching throughout his career. He took the time to know his students as
individuals and demanded rigor and commitment from each. The students responded
with enthusiasm to this demanding but humane pedagogue. One way in which Vakalo's
teaching quality was recognized was through his receipt of the Sol King Award for
Excellence in Teaching.


129




October Meeting, 2000


Professor Vakalo was a valued and trusted colleague as well as a beloved mentor to
the junior faculty. He used his superb teaching and coaching skills to help them adjust to
the academy and for many he remained a continuing source of guidance and support
throughout their careers.
From 1994-99, Professor Vakalo chaired the Doctoral Program in Architecture. An
expert on computer modeling and shape grammar, he shared his own particular research
agenda with students. In addition, he exposed them to the many modalities available to
formulate a vigorous research agenda that would further their success within the program
and in their careers after graduation.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished teacher, mentor, friend, scholar, and
artist, our condolences go to his wife Kathleen, and his mother Eleni Vakalo, who lives
in Greece.
Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted for approval final degree lists for the May
2000 Law School commencement and for the August 2000 commencements for other
schools, colleges, divisions, and branch campuses. She also submitted a number of
changes to previously approved degree lists. Copies of all of the degree lists are on file
in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the University.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:
Richard Bernstein, alumnus, in support of E. Royster Harper; Chris A. Common, alumnus,
regarding advertisements for alcoholic products on campus; Gary Glenn, president of the
American Family Association of Michigan, Tom McMillin, alumnus, and Deborah
DeBacker, member of the Oakland County Republican Assembly, on the class "How to be
Gay: Male Homosexuality and Initiation;" and Nick Waun, student, on fetal tissue
research.
Following Public Comments, the meeting continued with consideration of the
regular business agenda.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported on the sale of real estate located at Sugar
Maple Drive, Cedar, Michigan.
Lorch Hall Addition
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Lorch Hall Addition project and authorized commissioning the
firm of Barton Phelps & Associates, working in association with O'Donnell Wicklund
Pigozzi and Peterson Architects Inc., as the architect.
Pierpont Commons Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Pierpont Commons Renovation Project and authorized
engaging the firm of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. for its design.


130




October Meeting, 2000


West Hall Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved issuing the West Hall Renovation Project for bids and awarding a construction
contract as described in the Regents Communication, provided the overall project remains
within the approved budget.
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital (UH) ICU Swivette Unit Replacement
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the UH ICU Swivette Replacement Project as described, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, provided that
bids are within the approved budget.
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Med Inn
Supply Fans Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Med Inn Supply Fans Replacement Project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a
construction contract, provided that bids are within the approved budget.
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) North
Campus Administrative Complex Roof Replacement
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved proceeding with the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) North Campus Administrative Complex Roof Replacement Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
provided that bids are within the approved budget.
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Turner Air
Handling Unit Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Turner
Air Handling Unit Replacement Project as described in the Regents Communication, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, provided that
bids are within the approved budget.
The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Medical
Information Services Relocation Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the UMHHC Medical Information Services Relocation Project as described in
the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a
construction contract, provided that bids are within the approved budget.
Purchasing Contracts with Life Support Services, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Life Support Services, Inc. Because


131




October Meeting, 2000


Mary Berry-Bovia is both a university of Michigan employee and a partial owner and
stockholder of Life Support Services, Inc., this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the purchase contracts will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Life Support Services, Inc.
2.   The terms of the contracts are to provide training for a period beginning July 1, 2000
through June 30, 2002, for amounts not to exceed $54,000 for Cardiac Arrest
Competency Training, $90,000 for Basic Cardiac Life Support Training, and $8,000
for Neonatal Resuscitation Training.
3.   Ms. Berry-Bovia's pecuniary interest arises from her position as a University of
Michigan employee and a partial owner and stockholder of Life Support Services, Inc.
Payment for Services for Artwork by James Cogswell, Jr.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved processing payment for artwork by James Cogswell, Jr. Because
James Cogswell, Jr. is a University employee and would also be a party to the contract by
virtue of his being the artist who created and owns the artwork to be purchased, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Hatcher Graduate Library and Associate Professor James Cogswell, Jr.
2.   The artwork to be purchased is five unframed woodblock prints at a total cost of
$3,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that James Cogswell, Jr., a University of
Michigan employee, is the owner/creator of the artwork to be purchased.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Arbor Networks
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement with Arbor Networks for three inventions,
identified as file numbers 1900, 1920, and 1921 in the Technology Management Office.
Because the inventors of the technologies, Farnam Jahanian and Gerald R. (Rob) Malan,
are University of Michigan employees and also hold equity interest in Arbor Networks,
Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Arbor Networks, Inc.
2.   Contract terms include:
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational purposes, with
right to grant sub-licenses.
The University will receive a 5% equity share in Arbor Networks. This position will
be protected against dilution up through $5 million of investment in Arbor Networks.
Arbor Networks will support College of Engineering research at a level of at least
$50,000/year for a minimum of three years.
Specified milestones will be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by the
licensee.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under this agreement.


132




October Meeting, 2000


3.   Farnam Jahnanian's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Arbor
Networks. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University from the company.
Gerald Malan's pecuniary interest arises from his personal founders share in Arbor
Networks. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University from the company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Great Lakes Commission. Because the project involves collaboration with Dr. Michael
Donahue, who is employed by the Great Lakes Commission and is also an adjunct faculty
member at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $28,586 is anticipated to cover
the period of July 1, 2000 through September 30, 2002. The terms of the proposed
agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.   Michael Donahue's adjunct appointment at the University of Michigan is without
compensation.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and HealthMedia, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
HealthMedia, Inc. Because Victor Strecher is both a University of Michigan employee
and partial owner and chief scientific officer of HealthMedia, Inc., this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and HealthMedia, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the subcontract to the University if $279,591. The period of performance is
one year.
3.   Victor Stretcher's pecuniary interest arises from his part-ownership of HealthMedia,
Inc. and his role as chief scientific officer. He will devote no effort to this project on
behalf of the University and has played no role in the proposal submission or
negotiation of an agreement with the University.
The meeting then recessed at 4:30 p.m.
Friday, October 20, 2000
The Regents convened at 9:30 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim
Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General
Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Executive Vice President Omenn was absent.


133




October Meeting, 2000


Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent White moved that this formal session of the Regents be adjourned and a
non-formal session begin, for the purpose of considering a personnel evaluation. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Reconvening of Formal Session
The meeting reconvened in formal session at 10:45 a.m. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor,
and White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Executive Vice
President Omenn was absent.
Resolution in Honor of Olympic Athletes
The following Olympics participants with University of Michigan affiliations were
introduced and called to the podium: swimmers Tom Dolan, Tom Malchow, Chris
Thompson, Marcel Wouda, Samantha Arsenault; Bernice Orwig (women's water polo);
and Jennifer Brundage (softball) (all medal winners). Also introduced were Mike McWha
and Owen VonRichter (swimming team members), Jon Urbanchek (men's swimming
coach), Kevin Sullivan (cross country team member), Ron Warhurst (cross country
coach), and Rich Fetchiet (baseball umpire).
Speaking on behalf of all of the Olympic participants, Tom Dolan observed that it
was an honor for athletes to represent their countries in the Olympics but "it's nicer to
be able to come back as part of the University of Michigan family." He noted that while
athletes strive to be successful in their own sport, to have the link of all having been
teammates regardless of what country one is from or represents at the games, the fact
that they have all been teammates is what really means a lot to them as athletes. He said
that "it is an honor to be part of the University of Michigan and the academics and
athletics that it has offered us and given us a chance to be a part of, and we feel very
special to have done that." He thanked the Regents for inviting the athletes to receive a
resolution and for feeling "part of the great family that is the University of Michigan."
A round of applause followed.
Regent White read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud the
University's Olympic athletes for their commitment to athletic excellence
and for their superb performances at the Twenty-seventh Olympiad. The
2000 Olympic games long will be remembered for the nine medals won
by the University of Michigan's athletes, as well as for the intensity,
resolve, and sportsmanship exhibited by all of Michigan's student
athletes, alumni, and coaches who participated in this summer's games.
It is with great pride that the Regents commend swimmers Tom
Dolan (gold and silver), Tom Malchow (gold), Samantha Arsenault


134




October Meeting, 2000


(gold), Chris Thompson (bronze), Marcel Wouda (bronze), and Gustavo
Borges (bronze); assistant women's softball coach Jennifer Brundage
(gold), a member of the United States softball team; assistant women's
water polo coach Bernice Orwig (silver), a member of the United States
water polo team; and men's swimming coach Jon Urbanchek for his
leadership as assistant coach of the U.S. Men's Olympic Swimming
Team.
The Regents laud all the other Olympic athletes affiliated with the
U-M, including Derya Buyukuncu, Mike McWha, Shannon Shakespeare,
Francisco Suriano Siu, and Owen von Richter in swimming; Abel
Sanchez in platform  diving; Kevin Sullivan in men's track; Rudy
Tomjanovich, U.S. basketball team coach; Han Lee, coach of the U.S.
Tae Kwon Do team; and Rich Fetchiet, an umpire for the Olympic
baseball competition. Also, thank you to Carol S. Hutchins, women's
softball coach; Richard J. Kimball, women's and men's diving coach;
Ron Warhurst, men's track coach; and to all of the coaches and Athletic
Department staff who have contributed to Michigan's Olympic-quality
program.
The Regents salute Michigan's Olympic athletes for their
dedication and for the rich contributions they are making to the
University of Michigan's athletic tradition.
Mr. Mike Stevenson, executive associate athletic director, accepted the plaque on
behalf of the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics.  Another round of applause
followed. President Bollinger commented that he took great pride in the University's
significant representation at the 2000 Olympics.
Resolution in Honor of Mayor Ingrid Sheldon
Regent Brandon called Mayor Ingrid Sheldon to the podium. He observed that he
took particular pride in presenting this resolution, as he had known Mayor Sheldon for
many years, beginning when she was his third grade Sunday school teacher. He then read
the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
extend their warmest best wishes to Ingrid B. Sheldon as she concludes
her fourth term as mayor of Ann Arbor.
Her deep love of the city, its residents, and its institutions,
including the University of Michigan, is evident in Mayor Sheldon's
ubiquitous presence in the community and a leadership style marked by
openness to new ideas, decisiveness, and trust. A lifelong Ann Arbor
resident and enthusiastic Michigan alumna, Mayor Sheldon was elected
mayor in 1993 after serving two terms on City Council. In a city with an
extraordinarily demanding constituency, she has governed wisely, with
wit, charm, and a respectfor colleagues and constituents.


135




October Meeting, 2000


Mayor Sheldon has served on numerous boards and committees,
including the City/Universit Committee, Downtown Marketing Task
Force, Ann Arbor Historical Foundation, and the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti
Urban Area Transportation Study Committee.  She serves on the
Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG) Executive
Board and is vice-chair of SEMCOG's Community and Economic
Development Advisoty Council. She also is influencing public policy
more broadly as president of the Michigan Municipal League and
through her activities with the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Mayor
Sheldon has received numerous accolades, including the Huron Valley
Girl Scout Council Woman of Distinction Award, Rotary Club of Ann
Arbor Distinguished Service Award, and the United Way Heart of Gold
Award.
With deep appreciation, the Regents congratulate and cotmmend
Ingrid Sheldon for outstanding civic leadership, and for fostering a
cooperative spirit between the City of Ann Arbor and the University of
Michigan that has encouraged both to flourish.
A round of applause followed, after which Mayor Sheldon thanked the Regents
and commented on the long association she and her family have had with the University
of Michigan. She noted that the city works hard to ensure that the University is "the
number one institution and number one community to host that institution."
Life Sciences Institute Co-Directors
President Bollinger called to the podium Professor Jack Dixon, newly appointed
co-director of the Life Sciences Institute and noted that with the appointments of him and
Scott Emr, the University has obtained the best possible leadership for this institute.
Professor Dixon commented that he and Scott Emr were excited about getting the
institute underway and thanked President Bollinger and the Regents for their leadership
and foresight which led to the University's current leadership position nationally in the
life sciences. He also praised the work of members of the Life Sciences Task Force and
the implementation group which had worked on the building and the co-directors
search.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Management Report and Responses
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced PricewaterhouseCoopers representatives
Jack McCarthy, senior partner on the University of Michigan engagement; Darrell Burks,
partner in charge of the UM engagement and head of the Midwest Higher Education
Practice Division; and Cheryl Soper, senior manager; and George Johnson from George
Johnson and Company, the joint venture partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers in the audit.
Mr. McCarthy and Mr. Burks then gave a presentation on the audit, which included
descriptions of the scope of services and results of audits; the actual deliverables that the
firm was engaged to perform; required communications between the auditors and the
Board of Regents; the management letter comments process; and a preview of upcoming
financial standards that will seriously and significantly impact future financial
statements.


136




October Meeting, 2000


Mr. McCarthy observed that the University's performance during the past year
ranks at the top of that for the most prestigious universities in the country. Regarding
the audit itself, he said that no material misstatements or illegal acts were noted, nor did
the audits disclose any material deficiencies in the University's internal control
structure. He stated that "the audit was a clean audit and we rendered a clean opinion
for each and all of the entities for which we were engaged to audit." He then turned to
Mr. Darryl Burks, who reviewed the "Required Communications" section of the audit.
Mr. Burks commented that "based on the procedures that we performed, there are
no additional actions required by the Board of Regents at this time." He reviewed each
required communication and noted the auditor's response to each one. He reported that
there were no significant audit adjustments and there were no disagreements with
management of the University.
Regarding management letter comments, Mr. McCarthy observed that the
University has made significant progress in addressing the management letter comments
for the year ended June 30, 1999, and that there are no new major issues to report as a
result of the audit for the year ended June 30, 2000.
Mr. Burks summarized changes in accounting practices that will be required in the
future due to Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) statements.
In response to a question from Regent Newman as to whether this is a financial or
performance audit, it was noted that it is a financial audit that did not include
performance. However, based on his experience conducting audits at a number of the
University's peer public and private institutions, Mr. McCarthy said that in many
respects he would characterize the University of Michigan as "best in class." Executive
Vice President Kasdin also noted that the audit does review financial operations from
the perspective of controls.
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that in addition to the annual audit
report, the Regents receive a report each spring on progress made in addressing issues
raised in the management letter. He noted that there is an ongoing dialog among the
external auditors and the University's auditing staff. In this regard, he acknowledged
the contributions of staff members Robert Moenart, Fred White, Russ Fleming, and Tim
Slottow.
University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30, 2000
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the University of Michigan financial statements for the
year ended June 30, 2000.
Annual Report of Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that everything being done in the area of
investments is being done in accordance with Regentally established guidelines and that
ultimate responsibility for investment performance resides with the Board of Regents. He
called on Chief Investment Officer Erik Lundberg.
Mr. Lundberg noted that the majority of the University's financial assets reside in
one of four pools of funds: endowment funds ($3,468.4 million); the University


137




October Meeting, 2000


Investment Pool (UIP) ($1,554.7 million); Veritas ($173.3 million); and M-Care ($64.4
million). Other assets include charitable remainder trusts, the Donor Pooled Income
Fund, and "Bond, construction, and other." The latter vehicles are invested differently
from the other pools and will not be addressed in this report.
Mr. Lundberg commented that in ten years, the endowment funds have risen from
$0.5 billion to almost $3.5 billion. He noted that most of the endowment is invested in
the Long Term Portfolio (LTP), the value of which was $4.0 billion at the end of FY
2000. The LTP consists of endowment funds (87%), UIP (10%), Veritas (3%) and
M-Care (less than 1%). Asset allocation is divided among alternative assets (38%),
domestic equities (24%), international equities (10%), absolute return (8%), fixed
income (19%), and cash equivalents (1%).
He reported that the current market value of alternative assets is $1.5 billion,
divided among venture capital public equities (40%), private equity (16%), real estate
(17%), energy (9%), distressed debt (4%), and venture capital (14%). He described how
alternative assets function and noted that the current allocation of 38% includes a
significant amount of public equities held by venture capital firms pending distribution.
Over time, the allocation will come down to the 23% target in the model portfolio.
Mr. Lundberg commented that the investment advisory committee was supportive
of a model portfolio of 77% in securities (16% international equities, 33% domestic
equities, 10% in absolute return investments, 18% in fixed income, and 23% in
alternative assets).
Regarding FY 2000 performance, he observed that at 43.6%, the University is
within the top quartile of Cambridge Associates' universe of fully diversified
endowments. The diversified nature of the University's portfolio has contributed to the
University's performance and will continue to do so in the future.
He then turned to the University Investment Pool and described it as the
University's working capital. Twenty-six percent of the UIP is invested in the Long
Term Portfolio, and 74% is invested in fixed income assets. These proportions will
continue to be reviewed and adjusted.
Regarding Veritas, he reported that 46% is in the LTP and 54% is in fixed income
investments. For M-Care, 18% is in the LTP and 82% is in fixed income. These
percentages are dictated by organizational needs and regulatory requirements.
Mr. Lundberg concluded by thanking investment staff. Executive Vice President
Kasdin commented that the FY 2000 returns are extraordinary, and it is highly unlikely
that they will be repeated.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger called attention to the recent death of Professor Emeritus Lesley
Kish, founder of the Institute for Social Research and one of the most distinguished
members of the University faculty. Regent Deitch pointed out that Professor Kish
invented the concept of "margin of error."


138




October Meeting, 2000


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:50 a.m. The
next meeting will take place November 16-17, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretaty of the University


139




October Meeting, 2000


140




NOVEMBER MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 16, 2000
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and White.
Also present were Vice President Feagin, Interim Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Provost Cantor and Regent Taylor were absent. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the
start of the meeting.
Vice President for Student Affairs
President Bollinger announced his recommendation for the appointment of Interim
Vice President E. Royster Harper as vice president for student affairs. President Bollinger
observed that he has had opportunities to work with Ms. Harper under the most difficult
circumstances, and she has not only acted with professional distinction but also with
"enormous human sensitivity."
Regent Newman moved approval of the appointment of E. Royster Harper as vice
president for student affairs. Regent McGowan seconded the motion. Regent Newman
commented that "this is a great appointment" and that she looked forward to working
with Vice President Harper. Several other Regents expressed agreement. The vote was
then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously and followed by a round of
applause. Vice President Harper responded that she is "excited and honored and
committed to trying to do a really fine job on behalf of our students."
Student Deaths
Vice President Harper reported that several young students had died during the past
week and among them were two University of Michigan students. Elisa Moore died in an
automobile accident while returning to campus after going home to vote. Another student,
Byung Soo Kim, died after consuming an excessive amount of alcohol during his 21st
birthday celebration. His parents, Dr. Park and Dr. Kim, speaking at a press conference,
asked that the University honor the memory of their son by using this tragic occasion to
help other students learn about the dangers of this type of celebratory drinking. Vice
President Harper noted that the University has many educational programs in place aimed
at reducing risky drinking behavior, but this is a problem that is not easily solved. The
hope is that "multiple efforts coming from many directions and supported by all parts of
the community will begin to make a difference over time."
Vice President Harper described some of the programs already in place at the
University to combat this problem and noted that the efforts are focused not solely on
celebratory drinking but on the risky drinking behavior generally seen in a variety of
contexts. In the coming months, she said the University would use the example of
Byung Soo Kim to extend and reinforce efforts to teach students about the dangers of


141




November Meeting, 2000


excessive drinking. She noted that a full-time coordinator to address issues of alcohol
and other drugs is expected to be hired by winter term. Additional, more aggressive,
educational efforts are also underway. Mr. Kim's parents have also established a fund
in their son's memory to provide education and assistance on substance abuse issues for
international students. Vice President Harper read from a statement written by the
parents that memorialized their son and asked members of the University community to
"please join us in honoring his memory by helping others learn from his tragic loss."
Vice President Harper noted that she would be attending the funeral that afternoon.
"Michigan Greats"
President Bollinger called on Vice President Ulaby. Vice President Ulaby introduced
Professor Brian Gilchrist, faculty advisor for the Icarus Student Satellite Project, a joint
project between NASA and the University of Michigan. Professor Gilchrist introduced
some of the participating students and faculty members: B.T. Cesul, Linda Neustadt,
Chris Davis, Boon Lim, Raja Roumadis, Steve Lendsisara, Hannah Goldberg, and John
Van Nord. Professor Gilchrist and Mr. Cesul gave an overview of the project and noted
that it is Michigan's first student satellite.
President's Letter of Agreement Extension and Salary Increase
President Bollinger called on Regent McGowan, who read the following statement:
Regents' Resolution
On October 20, 2000, following a meeting with President
Bollinger in which we reviewed the status of the issues that had required
his particular attention during the past academic year and his detailing
of the issues he believes will confront the University this year, the Board
met together alone. It was our purpose to determine the degree of the
Board's satisfaction with his performance for the year just past and the
salary we would offer him for the current year.
It is always dffiicult at any public institution to put a dollar
amount to the actual value that a board attaches to the successful
leadership efforts of its president. A proposal was therefore advanced
that, in addition to any salar, increase that we might be able to offet; we
also extend to the president an invitation to extend the terms of his
existing Letter of Agreement, signed on November 12, 1996, far into the
future.
The Board agreed, and President Bollinger has accepted, an
offer to extend to January 31, 2006 his term in office and a 5% increase
in his salary for this year, which would increase his salary from
$313,000 to $326,550.
The other terms of the November 12, 1996 letter, a public
document, remain in place, including the full review of his performance
at the conclusion of his original term.
This action by the board is meant to make clear to President
Bollinger and to the University community, that we are extremely


142




November Meeting, 2000


well-pleased with his performance. A primalry responsibility of a board
is to encourage its president, if it believes that he is leading the
University well, to stay in place and continue to lead the University well
into its fiture. I believe we are fulfilling that responsibility today.
Therefore,f  I move that President Bollinger's salary be increased
by 5% to $326,550, retroactive to September 1, 2000, and that his Letter
of Agreement be extended through Januaty 31, 2006.
Regent Horning seconded the motion. Regent Deitch commented that if he were
asked to list the traits and accomplishments that he would like to see in the leader of the
University, President Bollinger's performance would surpass idealized expectations. He
noted, "I think you provide great leadership to the University in many, many areas, and I
look forward to working with you in the years to come."
President Bollinger thanked the Regents for their support and recognized the vice
presidents and their staffs, noting that the job is a collective effort. He also thanked his
wife, Jean, along with the spouses of the other executive officers.
There being no further comment, the vote was taken and the motion was approved
unanimously. A round of applause followed.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the Minutes of the meeting of October
19-20, 2000.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment and
Plant Extension.  He noted that although the value of the endowment is being
maintained for the time being, the University should expect to give back some of last
year's extraordinary gains.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established, October 1-31,
2000.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
displayed a plaque from the National Research Corporation naming the University of
Michigan Health system a "Consumer Choice" award winner by the people of Ann
Arbor. He also noted that the Department of Dermatology is ranked #1 in the country
and commented on a number of other Health System programs and events. Regarding
the budget, he observed that the health system is on track with its financial performance,
and that M-Care is also in a very good financial position.
Student Affairs. There was no additional report from the Division of Student
Affairs.
UM-Dearborn. There was no report from the Dearborn campus.
UM-Flint.   Chancellor Mestas reported that UM-Flint's enrollment market
analysis had been completed and a report has been issued and distributed. He noted that
the report includes a strong recommendation to build student housing on the Flint


143




November Meeting, 2000


campus, and this recommendation would be receiving considerable attention over the
coming months.
Michigan Student Assembly. President Bollinger called on Mr. Hideki Tsutsumi,
chair of MSA. Mr. Tsutsumi called on Ms. Sherry Katz, chair of the "Voice Your
Vote" Commission of MSA, to report on MSA's voter registration efforts. Ms. Katz
introduced other leaders of the Voice Your Vote Commission, including Duncan Wong,
Michael Gold, Christina Hollenback, and Michael Pearson. The students described the
activities that the commission had sponsored during the presidential election campaign
in an effort to increase the involvement of young people. They noted that their efforts
had been very successful and had received national attention, and they thanked the
Regents and administration for their support.
Voluntary Support.     Vice President Feagin submitted Reports on Voluntary
Support for October 2000.
Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, California
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................$  12,900
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering
and for employee matching gifts................................................. 18,900
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturer's Inc., Washington, DC
for the Highway Safety Research Institute in the Transportation Research Institute........ 175,000
ALS of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 36,709
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  96,301
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 15,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  14,386
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  20,167
AstraZeneca, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 119,032
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in  memory  of Charles W. Attwood...............................................  16,000
Menefee D. Blackwell Estate
for the Stephen M. Blackwell Scholarship in the Law School......................... 200,000
Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, Wichita, Kansas
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 50,000
BP Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 19,000
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for scholarships in the School of Public Health..................................... 21,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 35,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts........... 90,000
Campsix, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 207,364
Mrs. Ara C. Cary, Niles
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................... 32,344
Comerica Bank - Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  85,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.............................................  12,500


144




November Meeting, 2000


Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
William W. Coon, Ann Arbor
for the William W. Coon, M.D., Endowment in the Medical School.................... 10,000
Geraldine C. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
10,336 shares of First Midwest Bancorp, Inc., common stock
for the Gerald and Esther Carey Endowment Professorship in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 250,002
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
215 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for the Ara G. Paul Professorship in the College of Pharmacy,
and for support in the School of Music............................................ 10,728
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Minority Engineering Program,
for the Women in Engineering Fund, and
for other support in the College of Engineering.................................... 41,500
Horace W. Davenport, Birmingham, Alabama
1,000 shares of IBM Corporation common stock
for the Matilda Towsley Founding Endowment in the Medical School.................. 116,125
Deister Machine Company, Inc., fort Wayne, Indiana
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for other support at the University of Michigan..................................... 11,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  82,403
Department of Michigan, Ladies Auxiliary to V. F. W., Lansing
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 43,142
Detroit Diesel Corporation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 35,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship Fund and
for the Program in Manufacturing Fund in the College of Engineering................... 31,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  16,000
Ecolab Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
John D. Evans Foundation, Middleburg, Virginia
for research in the School of Information.......................................... 56,250
FMC Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the FMC Foundation MBA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration....... 10,000
ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship and
for research in the Quality Research Center at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 12,000
Stanley & Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work..... 20,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 25,000
Gentex Corporation, Zeeland
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 15,000
Genvec, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 25,000
William M. Gibson, Ann Arbor
for the James 0. Wilkes Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... 10,000
Gillette Company, Boston, Massachusetts
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Carroll J. Haas Foundation, Mendon
for the Carroll Haas Research Fund in the Medical School........................... 100,000
Virginia H. Harlow, Naples, Florida
3,500 shares of EMC Corporation common stock
for the Virginia H. Harlow Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Kirk D. Wuepper Endowed Professorship in
the  M edical School..........................................................  314,781
Anne Vance Hatcher, Ann Arbor
5,390 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Library Endowment and
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund......................................... 124,981


145




November Meeting, 2000


James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hay, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School....................... 75,000
A. B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics,
for the A. B. Heller Manufacturing Endowed Scholarship, and
for other support in the College of Engineering.................................... 10,000
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 28,905
Florence Mossner Hinks, Grosse Pointe
551 shares of Newell Rubbermaid, Inc. common stock and
100 shares of R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company common stock
for the Law Library Gift Fund in the Law School.................................. 15,068
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Chauncey Stillman Professorship in the Law School.......................... 250,000
Honeywell International Foundation, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering...... 93,000
Leroy J. Howard, Chicago, Illinois
for the Emmanuel-George Vakalo Endowment and
for other support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning... 10,800
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor
600 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the George J. Huebner, Jr., Endowment in the College of Engineering................ 53,025
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School and
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 578,200
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 25,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the IMAP Program Fund in the School of Business Administration.................. 53,243
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Intel Foundation Graduate Fellowship in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  27,100
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health and the Institute for Social Research........... 48,790
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research, and for WUOM...................... 231,030
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  13,631
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 16,000
A.T. Kearney, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  30,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing and Public Health.................. 1,278,075
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals.............................. 43,195
Gerald P. Kolb, Alden
150 shares of Bestfoods common stock and a cash gift
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,891
Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for Schembechler Hall in the Department of Athletics................................ 25,000
Raymond P. Kurlak, Bloomfield, Connecticut
200 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 14,381
Ladies Auxiliary to the Veterans of foreign Wars, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 25,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Clare Boothe Luce Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering....... 50,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Karl E. Lutz, Winnetka, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 27,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  328,000


146




November Meeting, 2000


Kenneth S. Mack, Metamora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 25,000
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 12,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...............................................  27,102
Joel F. Martin, Palo Alto, California
4,000 shares of Argonaut Technologies, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 82,625
MascoTech, Inc., Taylor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 12,500
Peter J. Mather, Kalamazoo
640 shares of Bestfoods common stock
for the Mather Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Schools of Business Administration and Law............. 46,640
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
for the Josip Matovinovic Endowed Fellowship in the Medical School and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens..............................................  25,045
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for the Women in Science and Engineering Program................................. 30,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 33,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint for WUOM and WFUM and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  98,201
MSPE Scholarship Fund, Lansing
for scholarships in the College of Engineering..................................... 11,500
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 30,000
William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
400 shares of Pride International, Inc., common stock
for support in  the  School of Dentistry............................................. 10,100
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division.................................... 11,710
Navistar International Transportation Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Richard D. O'Connor, Birmingham
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  60,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 20,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 15,000
Pfizer Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,889
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for support in the Medical School, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  97,500
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 287,500
James D. Reader, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Regal Plastics Company, Roseville
for the building fund in the School of Social Work..................................  10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 20,700
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Endowment in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 500,040
Henry B. Shepard, Jr., Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts
350 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 20,770
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration, the School of Public Health,
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Institute for Social Research.... 1,524,616


147




November Meeting, 2000


George and Louise Snell Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 72,600
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Business Administration, the School of Information,
the School of Law, the College of Engineering, and the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund.............. 21,000
Solidica, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration
and in the College of Engineering................................................ 10,000
Texaco, Bellaire, Texas
for the Texaco MBA Fellowship Fund in the School of Business Administration......... 20,000
Elizabeth Thompson Trust
for the Anne E. Shipman Stevens Scholarship..................................... 250,000
Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 48,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for the Toyota MBA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley J. and Margaret Winkleman Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 20,795
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Lorene B. Wabeke Estate
for philosophy support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 12,659
Lila Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  416,667
Emily T. Wheeler, East Tawas
1,410 shares of Bestfoods common stock
for the John D. and Emily T. Wheeler Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Clements Library.................................... 102,005
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the School of Dentistry and the College of Engineering................. 274,303
James 0. Wilkes, Ann Arbor
for the James 0. Wilkes Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
in memory of Colin Wilkes, Marion Oscroft Wilkes, Gertrude Oscroft,
and  T. Lloyd  Cardw ell.........................................................  10,000
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........... 15,000
Evelyn Mae Woods Estate
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School........... 50,000
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
for research in the School of Public Health........................................  45,000
Asa G. Yancey, Sr., Atlanta, Georgia
636 shares of Coca-Cola Company and
225 shares of Southern Company common stock
for the Carolyn D. and Asa G. Yancey, Sr., M.D., Endowment in the Medical School...... 43,835
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School............................ 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Andrew Abel, Pinckney
an audio system and shelving for the Department of Athletics, women's locker room
A.B. Heller, Inc., Milford
engineering and machining of kingpins for the Solar Car Project
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Jane LaRue, Evanston, Illinois
a Kashmiri shawl for the Museum of Anthropology
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
equipment and software for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
William C. Orthwein, Dearborn
engineering books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library


148




November Meeting, 2000


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Julie Butkowski, Brownstown Township
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor
Toros Madaghjian Estate
Virginia A. Martin, Fowler
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Dora Sakayan, Montreal, Canada
Personnel Actions. The following personnel actions were submitted:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2001
Sochalski, Julie A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Calhoun, Judith G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2000
Dunlap, Paul V., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2001
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akingbehin, Kiumi, Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of Computer and
Information Science, September 1-December 31, 2000
Keane, E. Webb Jr., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Ramaswamy, Sumathi, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Interim Director, Center for South
and Southeast Asian Studies, also appointed Associate Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Terada, Rei, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000
Tonomura, Hitomi, Assoicate Professor of History, with tenure, Associate Professor of Women' s Studies,
without tenure, and Director, Center for Japanese Studies, also appointed Associate Professor of
Asian Languages and Cultures, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing New Academic Administrative Position
Associate Dean for Research, School of Dentistry, January 1, 2001
Establishing Professorship
Harold A. Furlong Professorship in Women's Health, Medical School, December 1, 2000


149




November Meeting, 2000


Naming Professorship
Carolyne K. Davis Collegiate Professorship in Nursing, School of Nursing, November 1, 2000
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective January 1, 2002
Stafford, Frank P., Acting Director, Institute for Social Research, January 1, 2001
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alfred, Dewitt C. III, Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, November 1, 2000-October 31, 2001
Berry-Richardson, Dana S., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, October 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Eliav, Milka, License, Lecturer II in Hebrew Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 31, 2001
Farhat, David W., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Gateward, Frances K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Gauger, Virginia T., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, September
1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Gregory, Melissa J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Hirshbein, Peretz, B.A., Lecturer II in History of Medicine, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Horenstein, Richard B., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 9, 2000-October 8, 2001
Ilag, Liza L., M.D. Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2000-March 31, 2001
Jain, Kusum, M.A., Lecturer II in Hindi, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Kirshner, Andrew J., D.M.A., Lecturer II in Music, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Knuth, Nicholas D., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Levin, Erika M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Plagwitz, Thomas R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of German, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001.
Saunders, Shari L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Sedgley, Christine M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
October 1, 2000-September 1, 2001
Sharif, Kambiz, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Thwaite, Erica L., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Vazquez, Roland, M.M., Lecturer in Music (Jazz and Improvisation), School of Music,
September 1, 2000-May 31,2003
Walborn, Carolyn F., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, October 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective November 16, 2000
Gay, Steven E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2000-July 31, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
Parker, Shandowyn L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003 (previously reported as Lecturer of Health Care)


150




November Meeting, 2000


CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective November 2000
Lee, Soo-Young, Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chapman, Daniel K., M.D., from Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine to Clinical Instructor II in
Emergency Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Hammond, Wendy, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, also appointed
Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Harris, Monte O., M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical
School, September 18, 2000-August 31, 2001
Heaney, Deborah S., M.D., from Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine to Clinical Instructor II in
Emergency Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Hunt, Karen A., M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
Levy, Loren, M.D., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical
School, October 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Roth, Victor S., M.D., from Clinical Professor II of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Emergency Medicine, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Domino, Edward F., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Heyn, Ruth M., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 1999-June 30, 2001
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2000
Nystuen, John D., Professor Emeritus of Urban Geography and Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Ribbens, William B., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Rosenwald, George, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Sarri, Rosemary A., Professor Emerita of Social Work, School of Social Work, September 1-30, 2000
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education,
October 5-December 31, 2000
Stern, Aaron M., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
December 1, 2000-November 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Adler, Dorit D., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
October 19-31, 2000
Agranoff, Bernard W., Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of Neurosciences, Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Barton, Marthalee, Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, extended sick leave,
October 28, 2000-April 9, 2001


151




November Meeting, 2000


Chen, Serena C., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside
teaching assignment, January 1-December 31, 2001
Cresti, Diana M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Curran, Lisa M., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Environmental Biology, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus September 11-October 20, 2000 and November 10-December 22, 2000
Feliu, Fernando, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Gordon, Roger H., Reuben Kempf Professor of Economics and Professor of Economics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Kearfott, Kimberlee J., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
King, Larry, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Kohn, David H., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Krause, Charles J., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Lichtenstein, Richard L., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of
Public Health, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Lin, Shuen-Fu, Professor of Chinese Languages and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 21, 2000
Martin, William R., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Matthews, Rowena G., G. Robert Greenberg Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry
and Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Milroy, Ann L., Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Modesitt, Kenneth L., Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Moon, I. Douglas, Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, extended sick leave, October 30, 2000-April 30, 2001
Naik, Vaman M., Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Prasad, Gopal, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2000
Toon, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Associate Professor of English
Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Weiss, Hermann F., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Williams, William J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Heinonen, Juha, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as research leave)
Oberman, Harold A., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
October 1, 1998-June 30, 2001 (previously reported as October 1, 1998-June 30, 2002)
Martin, James E., Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public
Health, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2000 (previously reported as
September 1, 2000-December 31, 2000)


152




November Meeting, 2000


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Birge, John R., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2000
Collier, Phillip J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 30, 2000
Erickson, Laurel M., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, May 31, 2000
Flynn, Joseph T., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, December 31, 2000
Haddad, John W., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 31, 2000
Koo, Harry P., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, October 15, 2000
Lipscomb, Michael K., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2000
Minoshima, Satoshi, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2000
Mossallam, Samer, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 30, 2000
Nyachowe, Pascal, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, October 31, 2000
Omoto, Yasuhiro, Lecturer II in Japanese Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Smith, Howard G., Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, Medical School, October 31, 2000
Retired
Cole, David E., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
October 13, 2000
Morton, Harrison L., Professor of Forest Pathology, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, October 31, 2000
Spink, Walter M., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2000
Vesecky, John F., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, August 31, 2000
Term Completed
Bennett, P.E., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, August 31, 2000
Breedon, Eric L., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Calloway, Licia M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Csengeri, Karen E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Dreiser, Petra, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2000
Hollander, Isaac, Lecturer II in Jewish and Islamic Social History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Jodl, Kathleen M., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Kuhn, Julia H., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Mbonye, Manasse R., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Ovens, Janine, Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Su, John J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Wang, Lan, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Deceased
Vakalo, Emmanuel-George, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, October 2, 2000
CORRECTION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective November 16, 2000
Diouf, Mamadou, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001 (previously reported as
September 1, 2000)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption three
retirement memoirs.


153




November Meeting, 2000


Clyde L. Owings, M.D., Ph.D., associate professor of pediatrics and
communicable diseases in the Medical School and associate professor of biomedical
engineering and associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2000.
A native of Alabama, Dr. Owings received his B.S. degree from the University of
Alabama in 1952, his M.D. degree from Tulane University in 1956, and his Ph.D.
degree in bioengineering from the University of Michigan in 1968. He served as an
intern and resident at University Hospital in Birmingham, Alabama (1956-58) and as a
resident (1960-61) and chief resident (1961-62) in the Department of Pediatrics at the
University of Michigan. He joined the faculty as an instructor in pediatrics in 1962 and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1968. He was appointed assistant professor of
electrical engineering in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor of pediatrics and
of electrical engineering and computer science in 1973. He was appointed associate
professor of biomedical engineering in 1997.
Dr. Owings' career combined bioengineering with specialty care in child abuse and
neglect. He was responsible for establishing the Child Abuse and Neglect Clinical and
Teaching Service and served as director of the Child Abuse and Neglect Section of the
Division of General Pediatrics for over 20 years. His research focused on refining the
techniques of physical measurement of U.S. infants, children, and teenagers, and he also
performed pioneering work in methods of evaluating isometric strength in children.
Other studies involved the role of retinal hemorrhages in the diagnosis of child abuse
and assessment of different fracture patterns and their potential etiologies. He was a
skilled and sought-after teacher who lectured extensively to residents and medical
students, trained many pediatric house officers, and shared his extensive clinical
knowledge about meeting the needs of abused and neglected children within the medical
setting. As one of the pioneers of the University of Michigan bioengineering program,
he also mentored many graduate students and helped design a biomedical
instrumentation class that became a bedrock of the program.
The Regents salute this distinguished clinician and scholar by naming Clyde L.
Owings associate professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases, associate
professor emeritus of biomedical engineering, and associate professor emeritus of
electrical engineering and computer science.
Walter M. Spink, Ph.D., professor of history of art, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2000.
Professor Spink received his A.B. degree from Amherst College in 1949 and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1950 and 1954, respectively. After
serving in the U.S. Army (1954-56) and as a faculty member at Brandeis University
(1956-61), he joined the University of Michigan as an associate professor in 1961 and was
promoted to professor in 1970.
Adding an expertise in Indian art to his colleagues' specializations in other Asian
artistic traditions, Professor Spink became part of a seven-member contingent that made the
University of Michigan the nation's leading institution for the study of Near Eastern and Far
Eastern art. While teaching the full range of Indian art, Professor Spink emerged as the
world's foremost authority on the fifth century cave temples of Ajanta with their
extraordinary riches of paintings, sculpture, and decorative apparatus. With uncommon
dedication and the most carefully crafted arguments, and in the face of considerable
opposition from fellow Indianists, Professor Spink developed his "short chronology" for the


154




November Meeting, 2000


Ajanta monuments, consisting of fifteen years as opposed to the two-century development
previously postulated. And with nothing short of religious zeal, he has made it possible for
scores of students to enroll in his many site seminars at Ajanta to experience on site his
unparalleled knowledge of, and emotional engagement with, the material. With his
retirement, Professor Spink can turn in earnest to the completion of his massive, six-volume
study of Ajanta.
Professor Spink is a passionate teacher and a courageous and widely-published
scholar. He has served on the editorial board of the prestigious journal Ars Orientalis, has
overseen the department's Asian art archives, and created the American Committee for
South Asian Art color slide project. Well before the current emphasis on multiculturalism
and diversity, Professor Spink (to quote one of his colleagues) "presented...not only an
authoritative voice on Asia but a universal approach to the arts that shattered barriers
between East and West, time present and time past." In recognition of his distinguished
career, a specialfestschrift edition of Ars Orientalis was recently published in his honor.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Walter M. Spink professor
emeritus of history of art.
John F. Vesecky, Ph.D., professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences in
the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2000.
Professor Vesecky received his B.A. (1962) and B.S. (1963) degrees from Rice
University and his M.S. (1965) and Ph.D. (1967) degrees from Stanford University, all
in electrical engineering. From 1967-69, he was a university research fellow at the
University of Leicester, England, and following a research associate position at Stanford
University, he served as an associate professor with tenure at Leicester. In 1976,
Professor Vesecky joined the Center for Radar Astronomy, STAR Laboratory in the
electrical engineering department of Stanford University and was a professor of
electrical engineering (research) from 1981-90. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences in 1990 and was
awarded tenure in 1991.
Professor Vesecky is an internationally recognized expert in remote sensing,
particularly as it applies to oceanographic studies. He is the author of more than forty
publications in refereed journals and the editor of three books. While at Michigan, he
conducted an extensive research program in the design, construction, and application of
high frequency radar for the mapping of ocean surface currents, winds, and waves. This
program supported and resulted in Ph.D. degrees for seventeen graduate students.
A hallmark of Professor Vesecky's activities was his extensive involvement of
undergraduate and graduate students in research. At Michigan, he was responsible for
the Undergraduate Research Initiative (URI) program in Ocean Surface Processes and
Remote Sensing, a cross-disciplinary program involving four departments and ten
faculty. He founded the Master of Engineering Program in Remote Sensing and
Geoinformational Science and both founded and taught a highly successful interdisciplinary
design course in space systems.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming John F. Vesecky professor emeritus of atmospheric, oceanic, and
space sciences.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for one
active faculty member.


155




November Meeting, 2000


The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on September 27, 2000, of Joan M. Butler, senior associate librarian in the
University Library.
Ms. Butler was born in Detroit in 1940. She received her M.A. degree from the
University of Wisconsin in both history and library science. She joined the staff of the
University Library in 1981.
Ms. Butler, a valued colleague and friend, had a long and distinguished career in
the University Library. During her tenure, she worked in the Serials Cataloging Unit and
is fondly remembered as team leader for the MIRLYN Implementation Team and as
database administrator. Her knowledge of serials, cataloging, and bibliographic control
systems was invaluable to the library's migration to an integrated library system.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished librarian, our condolences go to her
brother, Paul; her sisters, Grace and Laura; her niece, Suzanne; and her nephews, John,
Kenneth, Mark, Ben, and Ed.
Degrees. The December 2000 Doctoral Degree List was submitted for approval.
Honorary Degrees.   President Bollinger submitted recommendations for the
following individuals to receive honorary degrees at the Winter 2000 Commencement:
Elmore Leonard, author, Doctor of Humane Letters; Madame Lin Ju Ying, honorary
president, Chinese Nurses Association, Doctor of Science; and John Tishman, CEO of
Tishman Realty and Construction, Doctor of Engineering.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Six Months Report on University Audits
Executive Vice President Kasdin and Executive Director of University Audits Robert
Moenart submitted the Six Months Report on University Audits.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that follow-on investments
had been made in Trinity Ventures VIII, L.P. ($5.0 million) and Whitney V, L.P. ($15.0
million).
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to CT
Mezzanine Partners II, L.P.
Gordon Hall, Village of Dexter
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted a recommendation for approval of the
sale of Gordon Hall in the Village of Dexter. He noted that this historically significant
property, which is on the National Register of Historic Places, dates back to the 1840s and
is believed to have been part of the Underground Railroad.  Consistent with the
University's desire that the house be preserved as a landmark and treated in a respectful
manner, it is encouraging the community and state to designate the house as a historic
landmark so that it cannot be destroyed. He noted that sale of the property will not begin
until six months after starting the process of designating it as a historic landmark.


156




November Meeting, 2000


Regent White moved approval of the sale of Gordon Hall in the Village of Dexter,
as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Vice President Wilbanks commented that she and her staff had met with a number
of people in the community and they are pleased that the University is seeking a historic
designation for this building.  Regent McGowan asked whether the University's
intentions and the community's responsibilities in this matter were broadly understood
within the community of Dexter. Vice President Wilbanks responded that they were,
and that the community is a willing participant with the University in seeking the
historic designation in an expeditious fashion.
It was pointed out that the historic designation is intended for the site, which
includes the house and the approach to the house from the front, but not the 70 acres
around the house. There being no further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion
was approved unanimously.
Yost Ice Arena Seating Addition
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Yost Ice Arena seating addition for bids and awarding
the related construction contracts, providing the project remains within the overall project
budget.
Palmer Drive Central Chillers
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the Palmer Drive Central Chillers Project as described, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Women's Gymnastics Facility
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that funding for this project will be provided
by donated funds and will include funding for life cycle maintenance of the building and
contingency support. Mr. William Martin, Athletic Director, observed that women's
gymnastics is one of the department's premier sports, and it is hoped that this team will
yield the first women's championship in any sport.
Regent Horning moved approval of the Women's Gymnastics Facility Project as
described and authorized commissioning David W. Osler Associates, Inc. for its design.
Regent White seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan asked what other uses are foreseen for the land on which the
gymnastics facility will be located. Mr. Martin responded that the Athletic Department
is hiring a planner to do a master plan for the athletic campus. The gymnastics facility
ideally fits the piece of land where it is to be located. Other potential uses for this site
include men's soccer fields and new baseball fields, which would free up land in other
parts of the athletic campus. He also mentioned the possibility of reconfiguring the
current outdoor track into a multi-sport facility.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that there are a number of implications and
non-athletic considerations for further use of the land on which the gymnastics facility is


157




November Meeting, 2000


to be built; no new projects will proceed without full discussion of all of these. The
vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Science Instruction Center Building
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of the SmithGroup, Incorporated as the architect of
record and Michael Wilford Architects, Limited to lead the design of the building for the
Science Instruction Center Building project.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital (UH) Chiller Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital (UH) Chiller Replacement Project and authorized issuing
the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the
approved project budget and the Certificate of Need is obtained from the state.
Amendment of Contract with Architecture Buro
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved amendment of two contracts for design services by Architecture
Buro, as described in the Regents Communication. Because the sole proprietor of
Architecture Buro, Christian Unverzagt, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and Architecture Buro.
2.   The service provided is design work for College functions and lecture series, to be
provided for the calendar year ending February 28, 2001, with PO 3000129030 being
increased from $2,250 to $3,000 and PO 3000129032 being increased from $2,250 to
$6,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Christian Unverzagt, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro.
Proposed Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan
State University
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Michigan State University, involving collaboration with Dr. Hiram Fitzgerald at Michigan
State University. Because Dr. Fitzgerald also holds an adjunct professor position at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan State University.
2.   Under terms of the agreement, a total subcontract of approximately $329,000 is
anticipated to cover the period June 1, 2000 through May 31, 2005. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Fitzgerald's pecuniary interest arises from his appointment as a faculty member at
Michigan State University. His adjunct appointment at the University of Michigan is
without compensation.


158




November Meeting, 2000


Proposed Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Clark-MXR, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Clark-MXR, Inc. Because Gerard Mourou is both a University of Michigan employee and
a part-owner of Clark-MXR, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the subcontract to the University is $149,918. The period of performance is
2 years.
3.   Dr. Mourou's pecuniary interest arises from his partial ownership of Clark-MSR, Inc.
He will devote no effort to this project on behalf of the University or the company and
has played no role in the proposal submission or negotiation of the Agreement with the
University.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Cancer
Stem Cell Genomics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a proposed license agreement between the University of Michigan
and Cancer Stem Cell Genomics, Inc. ("CSCG") Because three of the four principal
owners of Cancer Stem Cell Genomics, Inc. (Max Wicha, M.D., Michael Clarke, M.D.,
and Sean Morrison, Ph.D.) are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Cancer Stem Cell
Genomics, Inc.
2.   Contract terms include:
All fields of use.
Exclusive worldwide license with a right to grant sublicenses.
License fees of $10,000 in three installments.
Maintenance fees of $410,000 per year to be offset by research grant revenue.
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by the
licensee.
The University will receive a 10% equity share in CSCG subject to dilution
corresponding to that of the founders.
CSCG will support the Univeristy of Michigan research at a level of $500,000 over
three years.
Royalties of 1% of net sales of products and process by CSCG and its sublicensees to
be offset by patent costs.
Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated under the agreement, although a funded research agreement is required.
3.   Drs. Wicha, Clarke, and Morrison's pecuniary interest arises from their ownership in
the company. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds
received by the University from Cancer Stem Cell Genomics, Inc. as a result of this
License Agreement.


159




November Meeting, 2000


Henry Russell Award for 2001
President Bollinger reported that the Henry Russel Award Selection Committee had
selected Lisa M. Curran, assistant professor of ecology and environmental biology in the
School of Natural Resources and Environment and assistant professor of biology in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to receive the Henry Russel Award for 2001.
New Degree Program    for the College of Engineering and Computer Science,
University of Michigan-Dearborn ("Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering")
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program, "Bachelor of Science in Software
Engineering," to be offered by the College of Engineering and Computer Science at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Non-Tenure-Track Clinical Appointment Sequence in the School of Education and
Human Services, University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a non-tenure-track clinical appointment sequence
in the School of Education and Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Revision of Academic Calendar for University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of the academic calendar for the Winter 2001, Winter
2002, and Winter 2003 terms at the University of Michigan-Flint, as described in the
Regents Communication.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:
Audrey Jackson, alumna, Jeffrey Harold, staff, D'yall K. McAllister, student, and Sabrina
Charles, student, on the vie president for student affairs appointment; Gary Hann,
alumnus, on continued waste of money and resources; Michael Dover, student and Roland
Zullo, faculty, on outsourcing; and Michelle Rudy, Jackie Bray, and Peter
Romer-Friedman, students and members of SOLE, on the Code of Conduct
implementation.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent Horning moved that this formal session of the Regents be adjourned and a
nonformal session begun, for the purpose of consulting with the Board's attorney
regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Following the informal session, the meeting was adjourned at 5:45 p.m. The next
meeting will take place December 14-15, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


160




DECEMBER MEETING, 2000


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 14, 2000
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President
Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent White was absent. Regent Deitch arrived shortly after the
start of the meeting.
Admissions Lawsuit
President Bollinger announced that U.S. District Court Judge Patrick Duggan had
recently issued a landmark ruling upholding the constitutionality of the University's
current admissions policy. President Bollinger noted that the University's defense of its
policies was unique among institutions that have faced similar lawsuits and the result was
extremely gratifying. He recognized the efforts of a number of individuals who had
contributed to this outcome, especially Provost Cantor; Professor Patricia Gurin; Vice
President Krislov and Associate Vice President Elizabeth Barry; the outside counsel;
former President Gerald Ford; the corporations that had supported the University's
argument, including General Motors and Steelcase; and former Governor Milliken.
Life Sciences Corridor
President Bollinger noted that the state of Michigan had pledged to provide
$50 million per year in research funding for the life sciences corridor, to be shared by the
University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Wayne State University, and the Van
Andel Institute. He announced that the Life Sciences Corridor steering committee had
unanimously approved funding for infrastructure for the life sciences over the next two
years for the University of Michigan and the Van Andel Institute and had also awarded
funding for 24 proposals by University of Michigan investigators for the coming year. He
noted that the infrastructure project is a partnership between the state, the major public
research universities, and the Van Andel Institute, and this represents the first time that
such cooperation has occurred.
Regents' Comments Regarding Admissions Lawsuit
Regarding the admissions case, Regent McGowan commented that past Boards of
Regents, in addition to the current board, have been consistent in their support of the
University's admissions policies. She said that she was especially impressed by the
judge's clear representation of the preparedness of the groups that testified in support of
the University's policies. She pointed out that it is highly unusual for a judge to make
such comments about the preparation that had gone into a defendant's presentation of its
case. She expressed her personal gratitude to all of those who have worked on the case.


161




December Meeting, 2000


Annual Report on Research
Vice President Ulaby gave his annual report to the Regents on research, scholarship
and creative activity at the University of Michigan for FY 2000. The entire report is on
file in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the University. He noted that
research expenditures for FY 2000 totaled $545 million, an increase of 9.1% over the
previous year. New research awards in FY 2000 rose 45% over the previous year, to $650
million. The University of Michigan is the leading research university in the nation, as
measured by expenditures to support research.
Vice President Ulaby reviewed the mission and functions of the Office of the Vice
President for Research. He then provided a special video presentation on the role and
experiences of graduate students in research and scholarship.
He concluded by giving an update on the Life Sciences Corridor Initiative and
noted that the University of Michigan and start-up companies linked to the University
will receive nearly $48 million in funding for the first two years of the initiative. In
addition, the University of Michigan, Michigan State University, Wayne State
University, and the Van Andel Institute have proposed the collaborative development of
five core technologies, in the areas of genomics, proteomics, structural biology, animal
model development, and bioinformatics, to enhance life sciences research and
development. The University of Michigan will provide the headquarters for the
proteomics and bioinformatics cores.
Vice President Ulaby noted that the interrelationships between the University's life
sciences initiative and the statewide corridor efforts are already in place and will benefit
both initiatives. He concluded by thanking the Regents, executive officers, and staff
across the whole institution for their support of the University's research enterprise.
Sustainability
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the University has been involved for
many years in efforts to fulfill its stewardship obligations with respect to the environment,
while doing so in a financially responsible manner. He noted that MSA and members of
the Ann Arbor community had recently expressed interest in entering into this discussion,
and he welcomed their participation.  He introduced Terry Alexander, director of
occupational safety and environmental health, to give an overview of programs that have
been underway for the past several years.
Mr. Alexander noted that the University had received an Energy Star Award from
the Environmental Protection Agency in 1998 for energy conservation projects done at
the Hatcher Library, and he noted that this was the first of many buildings completed
and just one of many recognitions the University has received over the years for such
projects. He said that University staff take great pride in environmental stewardship and
work closely with faculty and students in these efforts. He gave an overview of the
University's energy conservation efforts and noted that over 25 million kilowatt hours
of power are saved and 90,000 pounds of lighting ballasts and 140,000 fluorescent light
bulbs are recycled annually. He reported that the University is committed to using
cleaner alternative fuels and renewable energy in buildings and vehicle fleets and saves
over $1 million annually by purchasing energy from a number of suppliers.


162




December Meeting, 2000


Other efforts include pollution reduction strategies, such as removing underground
storage tanks, eliminating mercury from laboratory equipment, using smaller quantities
of chemicals for experiments, and working with alternatives to the use of salt in
de-icing. Recycling programs are being used during student move-out and at Michigan
Stadium, and there is a full campus-wide recycling effort that recycles 30% of the waste
stream. He noted that last year the University recycled 4.6 million pounds of paper and
cardboard.
Mr. Alexander reported that the University incorporates environmental design into
construction projects when feasible and that storm water management is a critical part of
building design.  The Hospital is replacing its waste incinerator with a steam
sterilization process, which has eliminated the air pollution concerns caused by the
incinerator.
He observed that challenges include building on existing programs by increasing
participation, the need for collaboration with faculty and student groups, and the need to
incorporate environmental concerns into the decision-making process across the
campus. He concluded by introducing staff members who work on these programs.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.  Vice President Tedesco submitted the Minutes of the meeting of
November 16, 2000.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment,
Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action. He noted again that
although the value of the endowment is being maintained for the time being, the
University should expect to give back some of last year's extraordinary gains.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established, November
1-30, 2000.
University of Michigan Health System. There was no report on the Health
System this month. Regent Maynard commented on recent news reports on the
reduction in waiting time for the scheduling of mammograms at the Health System and
commended Executive Vice President Omenn for his role in this.
Student Affairs, There was no report from the Division of Student Affairs.
UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that two UM-Dearborn students had
recently participated in the 11th annual Argonne Symposium for Undergraduates in
Science, Engineering and Mathematics at the Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois.
He also reported on an exhibition of photographs documenting the religious diversity of
metropolitan Detroit that is part of a national effort to explore the varieties of religions.
The Detroit-area portion of this project is led by UM-Dearborn faculty member Claude
Jacobs. Chancellor Little also commented on the spectacular inauguration celebration
and ceremony that had recently been held in his honor.
UM-Flint. There was no report from the Flint Campus.


163




December Meeting, 2000


Michigan Student Assembly.        President Bollinger noted that MSA president
Hideki Tsutsumi was absent. Mr. Siafa Haj, MSA treasurer, reported that the positive
outcome of the admissions lawsuit was cause for jubilation in the MSA office and was
well received by students across the campus. He also thanked the University for its
efforts in environmental sustainability. He introduced Mr. Karl Steyaert, a graduate
student in anthropology, who spoke about the "Proposal for a Sustainable University of
Michigan." This is a student-led initiative whose purpose is to encourage the University
to increase its environmental and social responsibility in education, research, and
physical operations.
Mr. Steyaert described the proposal and noted that it calls for the University to
move more explicitly and directly toward increased sustainability.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for November 2000.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Nursing, Medicine, and Public Health
and in the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science and the Arts.................. 25,000
Michael L. Achenbaum, New York, New York
for undergraduate student aid................................................... 20,000
Mrs. Gardner Ackley, Ann Arbor
for the H. Gardner Endowment Fund in the University Musical Society................. 25,000
Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, California
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering
and  for support in  the M edical School............................................  26,500
David D. Alger, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  50,000
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturer's, Inc., Washington, DC
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute................... 175,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  87,980
American Chemical Society, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 10,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  70,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  25,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Division of Kinesiology
and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................  137,538
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 51,108
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  30,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 300,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  11,250
Association for Academic Surgery, Manchester, Massachusetts
for the C. Gardner Child Research and Education Fund in the Medical School............ 15,000
Stephen S. Baits, Rockford, Illinois
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 24,000
Dorothy M. Baker Estate
for the McInally Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 10,000
Bauer Controls, Ann Arbor
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 10,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000


164




December Meeting, 2000


Steven C. Benz, Adrian
116 shares of Duke Energy Corporation common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund......................................... 10,107
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Betz Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics
and for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 52,000
Bickner Family Foundation, Sycamore, Illinois
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology................................ 50,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................ 75,000
Irwin Chase, Jr., Deep River, Connecticut
4,175 shares of various corporate common stock
for the College of Engineering, Irwin Chase Plaza Fund............................. 246,900
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for risk management support in the School of Business Administration
and for employee matching gifts................................................. 27,500
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration
and for the Citigroup Lecture Series Initiative Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................................... 361,500
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the Whole Child Program Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 15,000
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  15,000
William M. Cutler, Vero Beach, Florida
1,500 shares of ServiceMaster Company common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center
and for the KEC  Building Development Fund...................................... 13,688
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  13,333
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................. 20,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  17,750
Diversified Career and Educational Services, Detroit
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering....... 16,000
Peter A. Dow Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  10,000
Jack P. Ellman, Battle Creek
for the Jack Ellman Charitable Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 10,000
Envision, Inc., Northbrook, Illinois
for the M ichigan Leadershape Institute............................................ 25,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration
and for support in the College of Engineering......................................  23,000
Farmer Jack/A & P Supermarkets, Detroit
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Cyrus Farrehi, Grand Blanc
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School
and  for W FU M.............................................................  300,220
Irving A. Fields, M.D. Trust
for the Irving A. Fields, M.D. Scholarship in the Medical School...................... 106,809
Russell H. Fifield Living Trust
for support in the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center........................................ 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Center for Engineering Education and Practice at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 25,000
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  137,464
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration
and for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 58,500
Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
700 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Ralph and Susan Garlick Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 23,406


165




December Meeting, 2000


General Motors Corporation, Warren
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 15,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................... 25,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for facilities support in the College of Engineering................................ 1,000,000
Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in  the  M edical School............................................... 17,000
Leslie J. Goldman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support of the Law  School................................................... 15,000
Goldman, Sachs & Company, New York, New York
for student aid and the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration...... 72,000
Gordon Food Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and the Institute for Social Research............. 75,000
Arthur E. Gulick, Osprey, Florida
695 shares of PepsiCo, Inc., common stock
for the Arthur C. Gulick Endowment in the School of Nursing,
for the A.E. Gulick, M.D., Fund in the Medical School, and
for the Arthur Gulick Loan Fund in the School of Music.............................. 29,756
Robert Z. Gussin, New Brunswick, New Jersey
1,720 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Robert and Patricia Gussin Endowed Fund in the Medical School............... 158,079
Jack Habel, Naples, Florida
3,118 shares of Citizens Communications Company common stock
for the Jack Habel Charitable Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University Library.................................... 45,698
Leonora J. Habel, Naples, Florida
3,119 shares of Citizens Communications Company common stock
for the Leonora J. Habel Charitable Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University Library.................................... 45,713
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halliday Law School Scholarship in the Law School............ 12,000
Gerald B. Hatch Trust, Largo, Florida
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 18,677
Sidney M. Hiller, Franklin
for support in the Medical School in memory of Harriet Hiller......................... 50,000
Holnam, Inc., Dundee
for the Holnam Professorship in the School of Business Administration................ 500,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Meyerhoff Gift Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 25,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering and in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................................... 115,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 40,000
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 60,000
Orpha Irwin Trust
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 53,509
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
113 shares of Pfizer, Inc. common stock and
100 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in  the  School of Nursing.............................................. 10,092
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 35,000
Hal. B. Jennings, Jr., San Antonio, Texas
1,527 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Hal B. and Flora G. Jennings Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School..................................... 100,000
Elizabeth J. Johnson, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Red Berenson Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 25,094
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for research in the School of Art and Design.......................................  10,000


166




December Meeting, 2000


Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health........................................ 29,971
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 27,850
Joshua Kestenbaum, New York, New York
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Division of Kinesiology...................... 10,000
Franklyn D. Kimball, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Law  School................................................... 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals............................. 14,398
William L. Knapp, Ann Arbor
748 shares of DaimlerChrysler common stock and a cash gift
for the Dr. William Knapp Charitable Gift Annuity Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 30,000
Krips Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Krips Endowment in the School of Education................................ 10,000
Arnold M. Kuethe Trust
for aerospace engineering support in the College of Engineering, and for WUOM........ 113,334
L & L Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School................................................... 10,000
Arthur L. Lennox Estate
for the Jennie I. Lennox Medical Student Loan Fund in the Medical School.............. 99,789
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  17,500
Levitt Family Foundation, Englewood, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies................................. 81,250
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Sylvia Majkowski, Redford
1,200 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Ted  M ajkowski Scholarship..............................................  48,900
Oliver F. Manzini, Laurium
for support in the School of Dentistry and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Marcus & Millichap Company Foundation, Palo Alto, California
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
Paul D. Marvin, Orchard Lake
for the Helping Hands Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................... 50,000
McMullen Realty Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  15,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
17,090 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for the KEC  Building Development Fund....................................... 1,001,148
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
11,994 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the KEC Building Development Fund, and for WUOM........................... 710,145
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry and
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School............................ 190,000
Michigan Dental Association, Lansing
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................. 20,000
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, Sterling Heights
for the Burn Development Research and Education Fund in the Medical School........... 52,225
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Social Work and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  25,100
John T. Montague, Portland, Oregon
450 shares of Mentor Graphics Corporation common stock
for the Harold A. Furlong Professorship in the Medical School........................ 11,419
Arnold P. Morawa, Ann Arbor
for the Arnold P. Morawa Endowed Visiting Lectureship Endowment in
the School of Dentistry and for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 26,000


167




December Meeting, 2000


Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 70,000
Maeve Murray Memorial Fund, Plymouth
for the Save A Heart Campaign Fund in the Medical School.......................... 10,667
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................... 24,999
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  10,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division................................... 11,710
National Semiconductor, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 50,000
Max K. Newman, Bloomfield Hills
11,111 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock
for the Newman Family Professorship in the Medical School........................ 598,605
Sarah W. Newman, Ithaca, New York
for scholarships and student aid in the Center for the Education of Women.............. 10,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
700 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 31,325
Barbara H. Outwater Family Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Art and Design and
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 30,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for the Pepsi-Cola Athletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.................. 50,000
Pfizer Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  16,370
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School...................... 17,000
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor
700 shares of Commerce One, Inc., common stock
for the Art Acquisition Fund in the School of Business Administration.................. 47,206
Andrew Rasmussen Estate
for the Dr. and Mrs. Andrew Rasmussen Memorial 1912 Dental Endowment in
the  School of D entistry.......................................................  867,702
Helen W. Reimer Estate
for the Irving H. Reimer Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 95,925
Elizabeth G. Robb, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
200 shares of General Electric Company and
200 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Robb Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Information and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 18,538
Harold Rosenn, Kingston, Pennsylvania
4,000 shares of M & T Bank Corporation common stock
for the Harold and Sallyanne F. Rosenn Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Law  School........................................ 200,720
Judy Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
720 share of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Music,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  22,635
Jack M. Schwartz, Scarsdale, New York
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund and
for other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 12,500
Science Applications International Corporation, San Diego, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 36,000
Harriet C. Selin, Ann Arbor
210 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Marvin Selin Scholarship in the School of Public Health........................ 13,204
Myron M. Sheinfeld, Houston, Texas
857 shares of International Bancshares Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 29,700
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  14,863
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000


168




December Meeting, 2000


Doris J. Smith, Irvine, California
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering and
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 100,000
Philip L. Smith, Ballston Spa, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 10,000
Specs USA, Inc., Sarasota, Florida
for the Specs USA Gift Fund in the Medical School................................ 11,700
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School............................................... 23,771
Sprint PCS, San Francisco, California
for  W UO M..................................................................15,210
SRC Education Alliance, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 24,000
Elaine Alpert Stem, Pompano Beach, Florida
87,261 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Elaine Stern Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics.............................. 855,169
Lois M. Still Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 25,000
Target Store, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................  10,000
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship Fund......................................... 71,209
Trico Foundation, Southfield
for the William Davidson Professorship of Business in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 15,000
David F. Tuthill, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
480 shares of Comcast Corporation common stock
for the Camp Knight Project Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 20,010
United Jewish Foundation Philanthropic Funds, Bloomfield Hills
for the Avern L. Cohn Fund for Advancement of Michigan Law in the Law School........ 26,375
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank Moran Leadership Award Fund in the School of Business Administration..... 33,000
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................... 95,000
James vanSweden, Washington, DC
200 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc, common stock
for the James A. vanSweden Endowed Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 11,188
Albert I. Warren Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  18,138
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for other support at the University of Michigan.................................... 103,901
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................................  25,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Endowed Fund for Graduate Students in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 100,000
Helen Michael West, Ann Arbor
200 shares of AES Corporation common stock and
150 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the George L. West, Jr., Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering............... 25,195
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  30,000
Jonnie L. Williams, Grand Rapids
for the Jonnie L. Williams and Nedra A. Overall Endowment in
the School of Pubic Health and
for support in  the School of  Education...........................................  12,500
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......... 102,000
No non-monetary gifts-in-kind or gifts under $1000 were received for November
2000.


169




December Meeting, 2000


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2001 unless otherwise indicated
Glotzer, Sharon C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
Inhorn, Marcia, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health
Lippman, Marc E., M.D., John G. Searle Professor of Internal Medicine, Professor of Internal Medicine,
and Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 8, 2001
Mirel, Jeffrey E., Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Education
Opp, Mark R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Physiology, without tenure,, Medical School, December 15, 2001
Stein, Louise K., Ph.D., Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music
Waite, J. Hunter Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Fisk, Lennard A., Chair, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003
Hyland, David C., Chair, Department of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, William J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2005
Alexander, Jeffrey Alan, Richard Carl Jelinek Professor in Health Services Management and Policy and
Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, also appointed Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public
Health, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2002
Cameron, Kim S., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, also appointed Professor of Education, without tenure, School
of Education, January 1, 2001
Hanlon, Philip J., Donald J. Lewis Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Dean for Planning and Finance, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2001-June 30, 2005
Lewis, Richard L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
Mirel, Jeffrey E., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, also appointed Professor of
History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001
APPROVAL OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January I-May 31, 2001
Porter, Cornelia P., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, extension of personal
leave


170




December Meeting, 2000


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Change in Term of Professorship
John Stephenson Perrin Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, from three-year term
to five-year term, January 1, 2001
Naming Professorship
Paul M. Fitts Collegiate Professorship in Human Computer Interaction, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1, 2001
Richard W. Pew Collegiate Professorship in Human Computer Interaction, School of Information,
January 1, 2001
W. H. Auden Collegiate Professorship in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1, 2001
Renaming Academic Administrative Positions
From Associate Provost for Academic Affairs to Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, January 1, 2001
From Vice Provost and Director, Office of Academic and Mulicultural Initiatives to Assistant Vice
Provost and Director, Office of Academic and Mulicultural Initiatives, January 1, 2001
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Prokssorships
Halperin, David M., W. H. Auden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2004
Nissen, Elizabeth A., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2001
Woolliscroft, James O., Lyle C. Roll Professor in the Medical School, Medical School,
January 1, 2001-December 31, 2004
Other Transactions
Matlock, John H., from Vice Provost and Director, Office of Academic and Mulicultural Initiatives to
Assistant Vice Provost and Director, Office of Academic and Mulicultural Initiatives, January 1, 2001
Monts, Lester P., from Associate Provost for Academic Affairs to Senior Vice Provost for Academic
Affairs, January 1, 2001
Peterson, Julie A., from Director of News and Information Services to Associate Vice President for Media
Relations and Public Affairs, Office of the Vice President for Communications, December 15, 2000
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Ann Arbor Summer Festival Inc.
Howard, Mathwon R., December 1, 2000-November 30, 2003, vice Richard L. Kennedy, term expired
Kosteva, James A., reappointed, December 1, 2000-November 30, 2003
Schriber, Thomas J., reappointed, December 1, 2000-November 30, 2001
Wolff, Karen L., December 1, 2000-November 30, 2003, vice Paul C. Boylan, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., at-large representative, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Patricia
K. Smith, term expired
Bolkovsky, Sidney, CASL-Wide Programs Representative, new appointment,
September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Stockton, Ronald R., Social Sciences Representative, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003, vice Sidney
Bolkosky, term expired
UM-Dearborn School of Management Executive Committee
Green, Brian P., September 1-December 31, 2000, vice Donald F. Rossin, on medical leave
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:


171




December Meeting, 2000


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Albustani, Yousif I., M.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Demiralp, Burak, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 1, 2000-December 31, 2001
Dwamena, Ben A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II of Radiology, Medical School,
October 12, 2000-October 1, 2001
Yee, John, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 31, 2001
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 14, 2000
Francis, Jacqueline R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003 (previously reported as Instructor in History of Art and Instructor
in Afroamerican and African Studies)
Roulston, Diane, Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School,
August 7, 2000-July 31, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer in Pathology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Andre, Naomi A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Hiramatsu, Kazuko, Ph.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, October 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Keizer, Arlene R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature also appointed Assistant
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Merte, Herman Jr., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
November 1-November 30, 2000
Mikkelsen, William M., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Paul, Ara G., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Solomon, William R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2000-September 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Berardi, Rosemary R., Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, extended sick leave,
August 15-October 13, 2000
Campbell, John C., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Harrington, Anne W., Lecturer in Communications, School of Business Administration, personal leave,
January 1-February 28, 2001
Marsh, William M., Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, duty off campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001


172




December Meeting, 2000


Silverman, Eugene M., Clinical Associate Professor II of Pathology, Medical School, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-June 30, 2003
Velez-Aguayo, Evelyn, Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2000
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adler, Dorit D., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
October 19-December 15, 2000 (previously reported as October 19-October 13, 2000)
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as
September 1-December 31, 2000)
Silver, Terry M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
April 11-December 31, 2000 (previously reported as April 11-August 21, 2000)
Teneketzis, Demosthenis, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as
January 1-December 31, 2001)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Affinito, John H., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 2000
Anderson, Joyce C., Lecturer in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
December 31, 2000
Blatt, Stuart D., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
November 10, 2001
Lederman, Robert J., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 13,2000
Manikas, Steven G., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2000
McEnnerney, Dennis J., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Mosca, Lori, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Assistant Professor of
Epidemology, School of Public Health, August 31, 2000
Mufti, Aamir R., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Nnodim, Joseph O., Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, October 31, 2000
Plunkett, Marcia W., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Szabo, Zoltan, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2001
Tirado, Mildred C., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
Wahl, Richard L., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, October 24, 2000
Yang, Ming, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
November 3, 2000
Retired
Adelman, Richard C., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Alexander, Richard D., Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University Professor of Evolutionary
Biology, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator of Insects, Museum of Zoology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Claflin, J. Latham, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 2000
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Term Completed
Egger, Rebecca M., Assistant Professor of English and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Toyooka, Aiko, Lecturer II in Japanese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Vraciu, Adela-Nicoleta C., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2000
Wang, Wei, Lecturer II in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000


173




December Meeting, 2000


CANCELLATION OF TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 14, 2000
Lauer, Roger E., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
CHANGE OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective December 14, 2000
Butterfield, Barbara, Associate Vice President for Human Resources and Affirmative Action and Chief
Human Resource Officer, December 1, 2000 (previously reported as February 1, 2001)
Retirement Memoirs.    Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption ten
retirement memoirs.
Richard C. Adelman, Ph.D., senior research scientist and professor of biological
chemistry in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on December 31,
2000.
Professor Adelman received his B.A. degree in 1962 from Kenyon College and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1965 and 1967, respectively, from Temple University. He
was a postdoctoral fellow at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1968-69. He
served on the faculty of Temple University from 1969-82 and was founding executive
director of the Temple University Institute on Aging from 1978-82. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1982 as professor of biological chemistry and director
and senior research scientist at the Institute of Gerontology. He served as director of the
Institute of Gerontology until 1997.
Professor Adelman's interdisciplinary research interests in gerontology span the
biological and social sciences and the humanities, reflecting the scholarly diversity of
the institute during his directorship. His major contribution to research on the biology
of aging is the discovery that alterations in the hormonal regulation of hepatic enzyme
activity in rats provide a molecular basis for the impaired adaptive capabilities that
accompany increasing age. His more recent research focuses on how aging shapes the
social impact and meaning of diseases in newspaper coverage. His foray into the
gerontological humanities relates literary images of aging in the novels, short stories,
and essays of John Updike with the historical development of science in gerontology.
His 145 publications include research articles, essays, and several edited books.
Professor Adelman has been president of the Gerontological Society of America
and has served as chair of the Gordon Research Conference on the Biology of Aging.
He has received fellowships from the American Cancer Society and the American Heart
Association; has served on many funding agency peer review groups, editorial boards,
and corporate and community advisory boards; and has received funding for 30
continuous years as principal investigator on individual grants from a broad spectrum of
public and private agencies. However, his greatest achievement may be the outstanding
multidisciplinary collection of scholars recruited to the Institute of Gerontology under
his leadership.
The Regents now salute ths faculty member by naming Richard C. Adelman
senior research scientist emeritus and professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
Richard D. Alexander, Ph.D., Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University
Professor of Evolutionary Biology, professor of biology, and curator of insects, Museum
of Zoology, in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active


174




December Meeting, 2000


faculty status on December 31, 2000, after a most productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
Professor Alexander earned his B.S. degree from Illinois State Normal University
in 1950 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from The Ohio State University in 1951 and
1956, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1957 as an instructor
in zoology and curator of insects. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1959,
associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1966. He was the Donald Ward Tinkle
Professor of Evolutionary Biology from 1984-89 and was named the Theodore H.
Hubbell Distinguished University Professor of Evolutionary Biology in 1989. He
served as director of the Museum of Zoology from 1993-98.
Professor Alexander's research has centered on acoustical communication, sexual
behavior, speciation, and life history analysis of singing insects. Early in his career, he
distinguished himself by using sound communication as a basis for understanding
evolutionary patterns within crickets. In recent years, Professor Alexander has devoted
considerable effort to the analysis of the evolutionary basis of human behavior. His
human studies have been designed to test whether the most difficult questions that can
be formulated are approachable from an evolutionary perspective. He has also studied
the social behavior of naked mole rats and horses. With his graduate students, he
studied speciation in 17-year and 13-year cicadas and the evolution of insect mating
behavior.
In addition to numerous articles on entomology and the role of evolution in human
behavior, Professor Alexander is author of Darwinism and Human Affairs (1979) and
The Biology of Moral Systems (1987) and co-editor of Natural Selection and Social
Behavior: Recent Research and New Theory (1981) and The Biology of the Naked Mole
Rat (1991). He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) and has
received the American Association for the Advancement of Science Newcomb
Cleveland Prize and the NAS Alfred Giraud Elliot Medal. In 1989, he was the
University of Michigan Henry Russel Lecturer.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Richard D. Alexander the
Theodore H. Hubbell Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Evolutionary
Biology, professor emeritus of biology, and curator emeritus of insects.
Bruce E. Bradley, D.D.S., Ph.D., associate professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on November 16, 2000.
Dr. Bradley received his D.D.S. and Ph.D. degrees in pharmacology from the
University of Pittsburgh in 1962 and 1974, respectively.  He was a resident in
prosthodontics at the USVA Hospital in Pittsburgh from 1965-67 and in anesthesiology
at the University of Michigan Hospitals from 1979-81. Dr. Bradley served in the U.S.
Navy Reserve Dental Corps from 1958-88 and active duty as a dental officer in Norfolk,
Virginia, from 1962-64. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1974 and was promoted to associate professor in 1982. He held an
additional appointment as assistant professor in the Department of Anesthesiology at the
Medical School from 1982-99.
Dr. Bradley provided both didactic and clinical instruction at the predoctoral,
graduate, and postgraduate levels, as well as supervision of outpatient general anesthesia
by oral surgery residents from 1981-99. Dr. Bradley served the School of Dentistry as a
member of the academic review board and the human subjects committee. He served on
the University's Military Officer Education Committee from July 1997 to June 2000.


175




December Meeting, 2000


He was also active in organized dentistry, serving on the National Board of Dental
Hygiene Examiners Basic Science Committee, the Interdisciplinary Committee, and the
Consultant Review Committee. His professional memberships include the International
Association for the Study of Pain, Society for Neuroscience, American Dental Society
for Anesthesiology, American Academy of Pain Management, American Dental
Association, and the American Society of Dental Anesthesiology. He is a member of
the Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor society and the Society of Sigma Xi.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming
Bruce E. Bradley associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
J. Latham Claflin, Ph.D., professor of microbiology and immunology in the
Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Claflin received his B.A. degree in 1964 from Whitman College and his
M.S. (1966) and Ph.D. (1970) degrees from the University of Montana. He was a
USPHS postdoctoral fellow at the National Institutes of Health from 1970-72 and taught
at the Washington University School of Medicine from 1972-74. Professor Claflin
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1975. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1977 and professor in 1980. In 1979, Professor
Claflin was named head of the immunology section in the (renamed) Department of
Microbiology and Immunology and served in this position until 1992.
and nurture a strong group of basic immunologists within the department. He was
responsible for bringing the crucial hybridoma technology to the University of Michigan
and directed the Hybridoma Facility for its first seven years. Professor Claflin was
mentor to eight doctoral students and four postdoctoral fellows and was a dedicated and
enthusiastic teacher of fundamental immunology to both graduate and medical students.
He served on the editorial boards of the Journal of Immunology and Molecular
Immunology and was a member of the prestigious Allergy and Immunology Study
Section (NIH) from 1978-82.
Professor Claflin's research has included several areas of antibody structure and
function and B lymphocyte differentiation. He was among the first to describe and
characterize the unique determinants (idiotypes) that were present on antibodies of
different individuals, and indeed, of different species. These observations led to the
concept that antibody variable regions could be encoded directly in germline DNA and
that antibodies with these idiotypes could be protective to an infection. Later, Professor
Claflin studied how antibodies encoded in the germline DNA could be further
diversified during immune responses. His laboratory defined the location of the
mutations relative to transcriptional signals, which had major implications for how the
mutations were generated.  His laboratory also developed a system to study the
functional consequences of this antibody variation on B cell activation.
The Regents now salute this dedicated researcher and teacher by naming J. Latham
Claflin professor emeritus of microbiology and immunology.
Emily L. Cloyd, Ph.D., associate professor of English language and literature in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2000.
Professor Cloyd received her B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of
Nebraska in 1952 and 1958, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree from Columbia
University in 1967. Between 1954 and 1967, she taught at the University of Nebraska,


176




December Meeting, 2000


Mt. Holyoke College, Vassar College, and Fairleigh Dickinson University. She joined
the University of Michigan faculty in June 1967 as a visiting assistant professor. She
was appointed as an assistant professor in August 1967 and was promoted to associate
professor with tenure in 1970.
Professor Cloyd did her doctoral dissertation on James Burnett, an important figure
of the Scottish Enlightenment, and published a biography of Burnett in 1972. She then
became deeply interested in The Rolliad, a multiply-authored collection of jibes,
fictions, poems, satires, and libels that occupied the attention of the leisurely class in
London at the end of the eighteenth century. She also worked on indexing and
organizing archival materials in Scotland that are of great value to historians.
Professor Cloyd thoroughly immersed herself in the culture of the eighteenth
century and she employed multi-media and innovative computer programs to help
students appreciate the art and architecture of the era. Her innovative use of new
technology has been supported by the Information Technology Division, the Center for
Research on Learning and Teaching, and the college. She is the cofounder of the local
chapter of the Association for Women in Computing. As the first woman to be granted
tenure in the English department, Professor Cloyd served as chair of the SACUA
subcommittee on tenure and was always attentive to faculty rights.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Emily L. Cloyd associate
professor emerita of English language and literature.
Linda M. Goad, Ph.D., research scientist, Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic
Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and adjunct professor, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty status on December
31, 2000.
Born in Detroit, Michigan, Dr. Goad earned her B.S. degree from Wayne State
University in 1970 and her Ph.D. degree from the City University of New York in 1974.
She joined the University's Great Lakes Research Division as a research associate in
1974 and was promoted to assistant research scientist in 1976, associate research
scientist in 1978, and research scientist in 1984. She was appointed adjunct professor in
1989.
Dr. Goad's first and abiding research interest was the cell biology of microscopic
algae, particularly cyanobacteria and diatoms. She is author of more than seventy
articles, mostly dealing with the application of the tools of cell biology to aquatic
ecology. In these publications, she made important and unique contributions to
quantitative understanding of cell constituents, the effects of toxic and inhibitory
materials, and the importance of extremely long vegetative survival of algal cells in
determining successional patterns in natural phytoplankton communities.
Through her experiences at the Great Lakes Research Division, Dr. Goad gained a
keen appreciation of the importance of field studies in understanding human impacts on
aquatic ecosystems, particularly large and complex systems such as the North American
Great Lakes. In keeping with this conviction, she served as marine superintendent of
Michigan's research fleet for fifteen years. As such, she almost single-handedly
initiated and pursued an outreach program which explained to thousands of Michigan
citizens the University of Michigan's role in Great Lakes research. Her comprehensive
program included in-service training for primary and secondary teachers and direct
experience for teachers, students, and interested citizens aboard the Research Vessel
Laurentian.


177




December Meeting, 2000


The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Linda M.
Goad research scientist emerita.
Thomas F. Lyons, Ph.D., professor of business administration in the School of
Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Lyons received his B.B.A. degree in 1959, his M.B.A. degree in 1960,
his M.A. degree in 1964, and his Ph.D. degree in 1967, all from the University of
Michigan. He began his academic career in 1959 as a teaching fellow in the Department
of Economics at the University of Michigan. Later, he taught psychology, interpersonal
behavior, and organizational behavior at Iowa State University (1967-70), University of
Michigan Medical School (1970-72 and 1974-78), Case Western Reserve University
(1972-74), and the University of Hawaii (1984-85).  Professor Lyons joined the
University of Michigan-Dearborn in 1978 as an associate professor and was promoted to
professor in 1984.
As a faculty member and administrator, Professor Lyons played a pivotal role in
the growth and development of the School of Management. He served as chair of the
Department of Human Resource Management and Marketing, associate dean of the
School of Management, and director of graduate studies in the School of Management.
He will long be remembered by hundreds of his students, to whom he was always an
intellectual inspiration.
Professor Lyons' scholarly publications have appeared in such journals as
Personnel Psychology, Journal of Applied Psychology, Organization Behavior and
Human Performance, Sloan Management Review, Health Services Research, Medical
Care, and Journal of American Public Health Association. His honors include the
American Psychological Association's James Cattel Award for Research Excellence.
As a consultant to industry and health care systems for over thirty years, he has served
as an expert on employee turnover, medical care assessment, performance-evaluation,
and buyer-supplier relationships.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming
Thomas F. Lyons professor emeritus of business administration.
Thomas N. Tentler, Ph.D., professor of history in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Born in Illinois, Professor Tentler was educated at Harvard, receiving his A.B.
(magna cum laude), A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in 1954, 1955, and 1961, respectively.
After two years as an instructor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1963. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1971 and to professor in 1977.
For over 30 years, Professor Tentler enriched the intellectual life of the University
of Michigan community as a scholar, a teacher, and a colleague. He was a leader in
medieval and early modern European studies. He won a reputation as one of the
handful of historians in Europe and America who have made the history of religion a
field renowned for methodological innovations and for new ways of thinking about the
relationship of culture and social practice that have influenced thinking across the
discipline and beyond. He carried his scholarly enthusiasm over into the classroom.
His articles are learned, insightful, and original. His book, Sin and Confession on the
Eve of the Reformation, remains the foundation of his scholarly eminence. It is a bridge
between the traditional history of doctrine and the newly discovered realms of cultural


178




December Meeting, 2000


and social history. It provides a masterly discussion of the theology of penance and of
the manuals that enabled medieval priests to merge the sacramental and psychological
functions of confession. It is a pioneering example of the history of folk psychology and
also of the contemporary understanding of proper and improper behavior.
The roster of noted historians Professor Tentler has trained is only one indication
of his pedagogical achievements. Even more impressive is his record of undergraduate
teaching. He has always had the gift to give his attention to pupils' ideas and entice
them to a higher intellectual plane, and he always seemed to have time for them when
he was needed. The willingness of a few people like Professor Tentler to respond
selflessly to his colleagues' needs accounts to a large degree for the cooperative
atmosphere and remarkable dedication of our department as a group to each other, to
our students, and to the University.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Thomas N. Tentler
professor emeritus of history.
Birgitta J. Vance, Ph.D., professor of Spanish at the University of
Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2000, after 32
years of productive work as a teacher and researcher.
Born in Austria, Professor Vance has also lived in Spain, England, Colombia, and
Argentina. She received her A.B. degree in 1956, her M.A. degree in 1958, and her
Ph.D. degree in 1968, all from Wayne State University. She also attended Michigan
State University and the Universidad de Guanajuato in Mexico.
Professor Vance joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty as an assistant
professor in 1968. She was promoted to associate professor in 1979 and professor in
1992. Although her specialization was in twentieth century Spanish prose, she taught
contemporary Latin American literature and all levels of Spanish language as well. Her
creation of a translation course involving French, German, and Spanish to English
translation contributed to the enrichment of the foreign languages curriculum. She also
initiated the highly successful international study program in Costa Rica.
Professor Vance's research centered on Spanish and Spanish American women
writers, the Spanish Civil War, contemporary Spanish literature, and literary translation.
Her research efforts have resulted in many productive contributions to her field: she
authored a book on the Spanish Civil War, as well as numerous articles and literary
translations. Professor Vance has also traveled to Spain and to 19 Latin American
countries to stay abreast of politics and culture, and some of her publications reflect this
interest. In recognition of her important contributions, Professor Vance received a
Faculty Achievement Award and, most recently, a grant from the Spanish government
for study in Acala de Henares.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her dedicated
service to the University of Michigan-Flint by naming Birgitta J. Vance professor
emerita of Spanish.
Helen R. Weingarten, Ph.D., associate professor of social work in the School of
Social Work, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Weingarten earned her B.S. degree in human ecology from Cornell
University in 1966, her M.S.W. degree at the University of Missouri in 1969, and her
Ph.D. degree in social psychology/social work at the University of Michigan in 1981.
She joined the School of Social Work faculty in 1981 as an assistant professor and was
promoted to associate professor in 1987.


179




December Meeting, 2000


Her research focused on conflict management and positive life events that lead to
transformation. In 1988 and 1989, she was a visiting professor at Hebrew University in
Jerusalem, where she taught "Marital Conflict and Negotiation." From 1989-91, she
directed the Interdisciplinary Program in Conflict Management Alternatives (PCMA)
through the Center for Research on Social Organization in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. She was co-director of PCMA from 1986-89.
Professor Weingarten was widely sought for her expertise in the area of conflict
resolution. A paper she wrote applying an interpersonal model of conflict resolution
that she had co-developed to international conflict was selected by the dean of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts as one of only three papers delivered to the
Dalai Lama in private session when he visited the University in 1994. Her work on
divorce among the elderly was not only published in scholarly journals, but was also
covered by "20/20" and CNN.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Helen R.
Weingarten associate professor emerita of social work.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that follow-on investments
had been made in Oak Investment Partners X, L.P. ($10.0 million), Pacven Walden V,
L.P. ($10.0 million), and Summit VI, L.P. (up to $15.0 million).
Parking Services Year 2001 Annual Maintenance Program
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the Parking Services Year 2001 Annual
Maintenance Program, as described in the Regents Communication.
East Quadrangle Fire Detection Alarm System and Electrical System Replacement
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the East Quadrangle Fire Detection Alarm System
and Electrical System Replacement Project, as described in the Regents Communication,
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, provided
that bids are within the approved budget.
S.T. Dana Building - School of Natural Resources and Environment Phase II
Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that bids for the phase II renovation
project for the S.T. Dana Building had come in over budget, but that it was proposed to
have central administration pay for rehabilitation of the fourth floor to be used as surge
space for administrative purposes over the intermediate term.  The SNRE would
ultimately receive the space back for its own use. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously approved the revised project budget


180




December Meeting, 2000


of $17,700,000 and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing the overall project remains within the approved budget and the state
approves the adjusted scope.
Perry Building Addition Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that this is a request to approve the
concept of an addition to the Perry Building for use by the Institute for Social Research
(ISR). He noted that there is a parking issue that has not yet been resolved, as completion
of construction will result in a net loss of 31 parking spaces. He reported that he and
Provost Cantor plan to examine this situation more closely and will report back as to how
it can be remedied when the next stage of the project is brought back to the Board.
He observed that this initial phase gives ISR approval to have the architect initiate
the design for the addition and that all of the pending issues, including parking, will be
presented to the Board before approval is sought for the next step.
Provost Cantor commented that this addition is very important for ISR, which is
faced with a severe space shortage due to the expansion of some of its biggest projects.
She noted that Executive Vice President Kasdin is committed to finding alternative
parking for the lost spaces, and she said that she takes responsibility for pursuing the
project without having resolved the issue, due to its importance for ISR.
Regent Horning moved approval of the Perry Building Addition Project and
authorization for engaging the firm of Einhorn Yaffee Prescott, Architecture &
Engineering, P.C., for its design. Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Women's
Hospital Birthing Center Expansion
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Women's Hospital Birthing Center Expansion
Project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Medical Campus
Human Resources Relocation Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Medical Campus Human Resources Relocation
project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Renewal of Two Existing Leases with First Martin Corporation
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved renewal of two existing leases for property located at 520 and 540
East Liberty Street. Because William C. Martin is both sole owner of First Martin
Corporation and a University of Michigan employee, these contracts fall under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:


181




December Meeting, 2000


1.   The parties to the two contracts are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
School of Social Work and First Martin Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a renewal of two existing leases for long term sponsored
projects for which space is not currently available in the School of Social Work
Building. The lease for 540 E. Liberty will be renewed for four years, through August
31, 2005, with rent increases each September 1 based on the increase in the Consumer
Price Index. The lease for 520 E. Liberty, third floor, will be extended for one year,
through April 30, 2002, with rent adjusted to the current annual rent paid by the
University of Michigan for the leased space on the second floor of the same address.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of First Martin Corporation.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Cellectar,
LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Cellectar, LLC. Because Marc Longino and Raymond Counsell are both affiliated with
the University (as research investigator and professor emeritus, respectively) and are
partial owners of Cellectar, LLC, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided on compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Cellectar, LLC.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of Use: Stable and radioisotope forms of polyiodinated triglyceride analogs
for use as medical imaging agents and the corresponding delivery vehicle for both
imaging and therapeutic agents plus all other uses which, but for the license agreement,
would constitute an infringement of any pending or issued claims encompassed with
the licensed patents.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology as
defined by UM Files No. 0021 and 0790.
License Fee: $15,000,000
Maintenance Fees: $15,000.00 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be offset by royalties.
Equity: The University of Michigan will take at least a 3% equity position on the first
10,000 shares issued by Cellectar, LLC.
Patent Costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Cellectar, LLC
Royalties: 3% on Net Sales of Products. The first $10,000 in royalties would be offset
by patent costs. Sublicensing royalties will be up to 50% of the royalties received by
Cellectar provided Cellectar can make available a Net Sublicense Revenue
justification.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license. The University of Michigan will  transfer  all  data
received from MBI to Cellectar, LLC, in consideration of Cellectars' additional
payment of $40,000 over a period of 5 years.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool in the laboratories of any of the
co-inventors.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Raymond Counsell's and Marc Longino's pecuniary interests arise from  their
ownership in Cellectar. They will both serve as members of the Scientific Advisory
Board for the company as well. Drs. Weichert, Counsell, and Longino have waived
any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from
Cellectar, LLC, as a result of this license agreement.


182




December Meeting, 2000


Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Nephros, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Nephros, Inc. Because H. David Humes is both a partial owner of Nephros, Inc. and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Nephros, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The study has been
reviewed and approved by the appropriate Human Subjects Institutional Review Board.
The period of performance is expected to be two years at an estimated total of
$425,161.
3.   Dr. Humes' pecuniary interest arises from his status as an owner/employee of Nephros,
Inc. and an employee of the University of Michigan.
Research Agreement and Subcontract between the University of Michigan and
CFI Group, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement and subcontract ("Agreements") between the
University of Michigan and CFI Group, Inc. ("CFI"), as described in the Regents
Communication. Because several people involved in the Agreements are affiliated with
both CFI and the University of Michigan, these Agreements fall under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. Specifically, Claes G. Fornell is both the owner of
CFI and a University of Michigan employee; Jaesung Cha is an employee of CFI and of
the University of Michigan; and Elise Chandon is both a visiting University professor and
a consultant to CFI. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement and subcontract ("Agreements") are the University of
Michigan and CFI Group, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreements conform to University policy:
The initial period of performance of the first Agreement is one year. It is renewable
indefinitely upon mutual agreement.  The annual cost of the ACSI project is
approximately $1,200,000.
The subcontract from CFI to the UM will cover a one year period at an estimated cost
of $277, 175.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Claes Fornell, Jaesung Cha, and Elise Chandon arise from
their affiliation with both CFI and the University of Michigan and their participation in
the Agreements.
University of Michigan Financial Report and Supplemental Schedules for the Year
Ended June 30, 2000
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted the University of Michigan 2000
Financial Report and Supplemental Schedules for the year ended June 30, 2000.
New joint degree program for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a new joint degree program for the Gerald R. Ford School of


183




December Meeting, 2000


Public Policy and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, which will offer three
degrees: the joint Ph.D. in Public Policy and Economics, the joint Ph.D. in Public Policy
and Political Science, and the joint Ph.D. in Public Policy and Sociology.
Approval of Academic Calendars for the years 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 for
University of Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved academic calendars for the years 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 for the
Dearborn Campus.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Peter Reppe, staff, about the Sustainable UM
Initiative.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Following Public Comments, Regent Maynard moved that this formal session of the
Regents be adjourned and a non-formal session begun, for the purpose of consulting with
the Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific
pending litigation.  Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Following the informal session, the meeting was adjourned at 5:30 p.m. The next
meeting will take place January 18-19, 2000.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


184




JANUARY MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday and Friday, January 18-19, 2001
The meeting scheduled for January 18-19, 2001 was canceled.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


185




January Meeting, 2001


186




FEBRUARY MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 15, 2001
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the General Motors Conference Room at the
Lurie Engineering Center. Present were President Bollinger and Regents Brandon,
Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present were
Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor
Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and noted that Dean Steven
Director was present. Dean Director welcomed the meeting participants to the Lurie
Building, and he noted that it was a gift from the Anne and Robert H. Lurie Foundation,
was designed by alumnus Charles Moore, and contains an extensive art collection.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger announced that the Royal Shakespeare Company would be in
residence at the University of Michigan for three weeks, beginning March 5, 2001. He
noted that this residency embodies the University's multiple roles by not only providing
performances but also by interacting with students and faculty in classrooms and other
venues and by bringing knowledge and culture to Ann Arbor and the greater Michigan
community. He pointed out that more than 70 events have been planned in conjunction
with the performances, including lectures, seminars, workshops, and exhibits, many of
which are free and open to the public.
Comments from Executive Vice President Kasdin
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that much attention had been paid
recently to an initiative by the University's Transportation Services Department to
eliminate the redundancy between services provided by the Ann Arbor Transportation
Authority (AATA) and the University's own bus service. This initiative would be good
for the environment, reflect the University's continuing commitment to partner with the
community, save the University operating and capital expenses, ensure that all students
currently employed as bus drivers would continue to have their jobs, and would result in
no loss of jobs for any full-time University employee working for the bus service.
He noted that a number of concerns that have been raised by students, staff, and
community members about these issues are consistent with concerns of the University
administration. He observed that regardless of who is driving the buses, the University
will continue to receive timely, clean, and safe bus service. To this end, he stated that
any agreement entered into would have performance standards and would be phased in
over a three to four year period, so that if at any point either party concluded separately
or jointly that the relationship was not working well, it would be dissolved.
Finally, he noted that since an agreement has not yet been signed, the University
wants to continue to hear concerns from members of the University community about


187




February Meeting, 2001


this proposal. To that end, he invited all interested parties to continue to share their
concerns with him and his staff. Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that before any
public discussion had begun, his staff had met with union leadership to assure them no
union jobs would be lost. Additionally, a first meeting had been held with all bus
drivers, including students and AFSCME members, and exhaustive discussions with
smaller groups and individuals had occurred and were continuing.
Regent Deitch commented that because of the degree of concern that has been
expressed about this issue, he would like to have a full airing of everything related to it
before the Board of Regents. Regent Taylor stated that he would like a formal
mechanism established by which individuals could air their opinions about this issue
and requested a moratorium of 60 days before any actions are taken. This would allow
sufficient time for all interested parties to express their concerns.
Executive Vice President Kasdin agreed and noted that the goal of Parking and
Transportation Services is to continue to improve efficiency and quality of life for
members of the University community consistent with the University's values.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Paul A. Spradlin
Regent Maynard called Mr. Spradlin to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
express their deep appreciation to Paul A. Spradlin, special adviser to
the executive vice president and chief financial officer, upon his
retirement.
During the past three decades of a University career that has
spanned forty-nine years and six presidencies, Paul has played an
integral role on every major campus construction project, essentially
building the campus as we know it.
Hired by the zoology department shortly after graduating from
Ann Arbor High School, Paul quickly distinguished himself. To every
assignment ---as a technician, instrument maker, laboratory supervisor,
administrative assistant in the Literary College, assistant to the vice
president for academic affairs, director of Plant Extension, and
associate vice president for business operations ---he has brought
brilliant management skills, an ability to work effectively with faculty
and staff, and a gracious, self-effacing humor.
He has overseen construction and renovations totaling billions of
dollars, including the lowering of the footballfield in Michigan Stadium,
the razing of Old Main Hospital, and the construction of the new
University Hospital, as well as the renovation and construction of dozens
of classroom and office buildings. More recently, Paul has led an effort
to preserve University history by using new technologies to show what
the campus looked like more than 100 years ago, and in so doing, he has
created a rich resource for historians and campus planners.


188




February Meeting, 2001


The Regents salute Paul Spradlin for his many years of
distinguished service to the University of Michigan, and extend to him
best wishes for a healthy and fulfilling retirement.
A round of applause followed, after which Mr. Spradlin thanked the Regents and
commented on how the University had changed during his 49-year tenure.
UM-Flint Enrollment Analysis
Chancellor Mestas observed that shortly after his arrival the decision was made to
look at the future of the Flint campus, and that the process would be subject to two
important conditions: all decisions would be based on data and all members of the
campus community would have an opportunity to participate in the process. To this end,
he commissioned an enrollment market analysis as a means of touching on every aspect of
campus life, including student life, academic programs, and support services. For
example, he noted that a majority of students on the Flint campus are of nontraditional
age, yet they are unable to take advantage of most activities held on campus because they
are held at inconvenient times.
He reported that with the completion of the enrollment market report, the next
phase of the process-engaging the University community in conversations by means of
roundtable discussions-had already begun. The end result of this process will be a
document consisting of three parts: 1) a commentary on the purpose of the university
and what it is about; 2) identification of a number of strategic imperatives; i.e.,
objectives, goals, and aims that are imperative for the UM-Flint to achieve; and 3) a set
of strategies for getting from the current situation to the desired one. He reported that
the process is to be concluded by spring, and a document will be completed by the start
of the new academic year in Fall 2001.
Chancellor Mestas introduced Mr. Scott Levine, senior executive of Carnegie
Communications, Inc., who gave a summary of the enrollment market analysis.
Residence Hall Planning and Construction
President Bollinger announced that Regental approval was being sought for moving
forward with planning for construction of a new residence hall. This would be the
beginning of a decade-long effort to try to address residence hall issues and undergraduate
education in the context of residence halls, and to improve the quality of life for students.
Vice President Harper stated that this request is an important step in the
administration's comprehensive plan to create and sustain diverse, learning-centered
residential communities that further the University's goals.  She noted that the
President's Commission on the Undergraduate Experience, chaired by Provost Cantor,
is examining issues related to the undergraduate experience and is looking for
opportunities to create effective, stimulating learning environments for students, both
within and outside of the classroom. She called on Provost Cantor to comment about
where residence hall initiatives fit within broader issues involved in the study of the
undergraduate experience.
Provost Cantor observed that the commission has been studying the undergraduate
experience as it has been occurring across campus in recent years. This has involved
many instances of extending the educational experience beyond the traditional


189




February Meeting, 2001


classroom environment, which is critical to bringing the full richness and scale of
Michigan's offerings to undergraduates. She noted that surveys indicate that students
value the variety and scale of learning experiences that are available. However, they
also indicate a desire for more opportunities for closer student-faculty interaction
outside the formal confines of a classroom. The residential life initiatives being
proposed provide a sound beginning for intertwining academic pursuits and student life.
Provost Cantor pointed out that the residential life initiative provides an
opportunity for a lot of collaboration across the schools and colleges. For instance,
office space for faculty fellows and graduate students, public performance spaces, and
technology and learning centers could all be imported into the residential life setting.
Living/learning opportunities would be increased, as would the level and quality of
student advising that could take place in residence halls. She noted that many peer
institutions are currently operating such programs. She also emphasized that this
initiative is only one facet among a number of opportunities for improving the quality of
the undergraduate experience.
Vice President Harper then gave an overview of residential life at the University of
Michigan. She noted that all 15 residence halls were built between 1915 and 1968 and
have a current capacity of 9400. Virtually all first year students and 40% of sophomore
students live in the residence halls, and the halls were designed as residential facilities,
not as living/learning communities. Thus their space configurations are not designed to
support classroom and other academic resources associated with living/learning
programs or other vibrant undergraduate educational experiences. She noted that
residence halls are considered integral to the educational experience, but when they are
designed in a vacuum and out of context, they can detract from the educational mission.
Contemporary residence halls, she noted, are designed to create smaller academic
communities and build connections between in-class and out-of-class activities. The
University's residence hall system currently offers three special academic support
services:  a special academic advising program, a hall library system, and a
residentially-based technology program.
Residence hall capacity has remained constant, she noted, while total
undergraduate enrollment has increased by about 5,000 students and the number of
freshmen students has increased by 1,050 since construction of the last residence hall in
1968. With no increase in capacity, the end result is that fewer spaces are available for
upperclass and graduate students, and the residence hall population consists of more
freshmen and fewer older students. An additional facility would allow the University to
take advantage of the fact that students benefit from a residential environment that
includes older and more experienced students
Vice President Harper observed that the quality of residential life is important to
prospective students. Thus, peer institutions that have recent residential life initiatives
are seen as attractive alternatives to the University of Michigan. The University's
approach will be a comprehensive, macro approach to enhance the undergraduate
educational experience that will address the intellectual, physical, and social aspects of
student life. Elements will include state-of-the-art information technology and dining
programs adapted to student tastes and lifestyles. The latter can also be used to enhance
the sense of community and encourage quality interactions among students.


190




February Meeting, 2001


Vice President Harper reported that although residence halls are safe, the
University is working with state agencies and internally to plan for major renovations
and improvements to residence hall safety systems.
Vice President Harper stated that issues regarding room size, amount of space per
person, and privacy concerns are frequently raised by students in residence halls.
Design of the new residence hall and renovation of old halls will be deliberate and will
be responsive to students' concerns. The residence hall initiative, she concluded, which
will include both facility renewal and new construction, will strengthen academic
connections, respond to enrollment and first year class increases, help the University
maintain a competitive edge, and address contemporary student experiences. At the
same time, it will allow on-campus occupancy rates to remain stable during the
renovation of other buildings.
Vice President Harper noted that the initiative would involve extensive
consultation with students, faculty, and staff, and that it would also incorporate
recommendations of the Commission on Undergraduate Education and Information
Revolution Commission, as appropriate. The residential life initiatives would also be
incorporated into the Campus Master Plan and would be considered for potential
inclusion in the upcoming capital campaign. She introduced William Zeller, director of
student housing, and his staff.
Regent Horning moved approval of the general direction of the residence hall
planning and construction initiative as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Taylor seconded the motion. Regent Newman thanked Vice President Harper
for moving forward so quickly with this initiative. Regent Deitch commented that
compelling points had been made in support of this program. He requested that the
University look seriously at private partnerships, as housing appears to be an effective
avenue for exploration of these relationships.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Xeotron Corporation
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Xeotron Corporation to practice and commercialize inventions developed and owned by
the University of Michigan and the University of Houston. Because one of the inventors,
Erdogan Gulari, is a current University of Michigan faculty member who owns an equity
interest in Xeotron and another inventor, Xiaochuan Zhou, is a former University of
Michigan research scientist and currently president of Xeotron, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Xeotron Corporation, a
company in which Erdogan Gulari holds an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include:
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational purposes, with
right to grant sub-licenses.
The University of Michigan and the University of Houston will split (50:50) a 4-6%
equity share in Xeotron.


191




February Meeting, 2001


A license issue fee of $55,000 - $80,000 will be applied to reimburse patent expenses
incurred by the two universities.
The universities will evenly divide royalties of 1% of net sales of products by Xeotron
and 5-15% of sublicense revenues received by Xeotron. (Initially the universities will
receive 15%; this percentage will drop to 5% over time.)
Specified milestones will be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by the
licensee.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under this agreement.
3.   Erdogan Gulari's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Xeotron. He
has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the
University from the company.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Ardesta LLC
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Ardesta LLC, under which a subsidiary of Ardesta, nu-En, Inc. ("nu-En"), will practice
and commercialize inventions developed and owned by the University of Michigan.
Because Clark Nguyen is a Michigan faculty member and also holds an equity interest in
Ardesta, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Ardesta, a parent company
to nu-En, and the company in which Clark Nguyen will hold an equity interest.
2.   Contract terms include:
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational purposes, with
right to grant sub-licenses.
The University will receive a 3.5% equity share of nu-En.
A license issue fee of $60,000 - $100,000 (historic patent costs less applied option
fees) will be applied to reimburse patent expenses and/or applied against royalties.
Royalties to the University of 13% of total non-product revenues received by nu-En
and 1.1% of net sales of products by nu-En.
Specified milestones will be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by the
licensee.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated under this agreement.
3.   Clark Nguyen's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in nu-En. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University
from the company.
Materials Transfer Agreement between the University of Michigan, Tularik Inc.,
and Vojo Deretic
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan, Tularik Inc.,
and Vojo Deretic for Tularik Inc. to provide materials for studies to be conducted by
Professor Deretic. Tularik has made it a requirement for execution of the agreement that
Dr. Deretic sign the agreement in his individual capacity as a separately liable third party
and thereby assume personal liability for the obligations stated therein. Signature of the


192




February Meeting, 2001


agreement by both the University and Dr. Deretic falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute because it would constitute a three-party Agreement in which
the University would be contracting with its own employee. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan, Tularik Inc., and Vojo
Deretic.
2.   Terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy with
the exception of Tularik's requirement that Dr. Deretic stand as a third party signatory
to the agreement. Dr. Deretic has stated that he is aware of the obligations set forth in
the agreement and is willing to assume personal liability for upholding the terms and
conditions of the agreement.
3.   Vojo Deretic has no pecuniary interest in Tularik Inc.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Curis Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Curis Inc. to utilize materials under development in the laboratory of David Mooney, an
associate professor in the Dental School. Because Dr. Mooney serves on the Scientific
Advisory Board for Curis Inc. ("Company") and also has stock options in the Company,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Curis Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy
and to the special legislative provision of the NIST ATP program regarding ownership
of intellectual property. The amount of the subcontract to the University is $984,571.
The period of performance is three (3) years.
3.   Dr. Mooney's pecuniary interest arises from his stock options in Curis and his service
on its scientific advisory board.
Research    Agreement between        the  University   of Michigan     and    Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Because the owners of Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., Drs.
Brian Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of Michigan faculty members,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $871,000 is anticipated to cover
the period September 30, 2000 through September 29, 2003. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Ross's and Dr. Rehemtulla's pecuniary interests arise from their ownership of
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement with Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC, a
company created by four University of Michigan professors to commercialize educational


193




February Meeting, 2001


software applications and curricula developed at the University. Because Professors Elliot
Soloway, Ronald Marx, Joseph Krajcik, and Phyllis Blumenfeld are owners of the
company and University employees who will be parties to the agreement, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and Learner-Centered
Technologies, a company owned by Professors Soloway, Marx, Krajcik, and
Blumenfeld.
2.   Contract Terms include:
Exclusive right to further develop and commercialize the software and curricula.
10% equity on the same terms as the founders, contingent upon $1 million cash
investment or sale of company.
License fees are royalties of 8% of net fees and 12% on gross sublicensing revenue;
maintenance fees are $5,000 in 2003, $7,500 in 2004, and $10,000 in 2005 and
thereafter.
Milestones include developing a detailed business plan 4 months from date of the
Agreement, closing contracts for $250,000 in revenue 7 months, commencing full
operations within 9 months, closing deals covering at least 4 different products from
the materials licensed by 12 months, and all of the materials by 24 months.
The University retains ownership of the programs and other materials and may
continue to further develop them and use them as research tools.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Professors Soloway, Marx, Krajcik, and Blumenfeld arises
from their ownership in the company.
The meeting then continued with consideration of the Consent Agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.      Vice President Tedesco submitted the Minutes of the meeting of
December 14, 2000.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment and
Plant Extension for January and February 2001; the report on Human Resources and
Affirmative Action; and the Regents Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000
from Single Sources, September 16, 2000 through December 13, 2000.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established for November
and December 2000.
University of Michigan Health System.         Executive Vice President Omenn
reported that Child Magazine had recently named Mott Children's Hospital as one of the
top ten in the country. He also called attention to developments that have been
occurring in the Life Sciences Corridor project and noted that the Brighton and
Plymouth-Canton health centers had been launched successfully. He reported that the
Hospital and Health Centers are on budget and that employee and patient safety
programs are being emphasized. Finally, Dr. Omenn noted that a new health program,
"Activecare," had been launched with General Motors that is similar to an existing plan
with Ford Motor Company.
Student Affairs. There was no report from the Division of Student Affairs.


194




February Meeting, 2001


UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that two Dearborn faculty members had
recently passed away:  Martin Slobin, adjunct lecturer in political science, and
Jacqueline Lawson, associate professor of English language and literature and chair of
SACUA. He also called attention to several items of interest on the Dearborn Campus:
Initiation of a classification study and of a planning process to identify the central issues
facing the campus; the impending completion of the College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters Building and of the Environmental Interpretive Center; and the achievements of
several faculty members and students.
Regarding the death of Professor Lawson, Regent McGowan commented that
Jackie Lawson had been "an enormously effective representative of SACUA, conveying
their needs with astonishing clarity," and added that she was "an incredibly wonderful
person."
UM-Flint. There was no further report from the Flint Campus.
Michigan Student Assembly. MSA president Hideki Tsutsumi reviewed MSA's
accomplishments so far this year.  These include successfully lobbying the
administration to improve campus recreational facilities, for which he particularly
thanked Provost Cantor and Associate Provost Paul Courant; establishing an on-line
listing of textbook information for a number of classes; improving the quality of
weekend bus service to North Campus; leading lobbying efforts with the Association of
Michigan Schools toward a goal of achieving a tax exemption for textbook purchases;
efforts by the MSA Voice Your Vote Commission that resulted in the voter registration
of more than 5,000 students; and a ten-day event sponsored by the MSA Peace and
Justice Commission to educate students about affirmative action that brought
nationally-known speakers to campus. Mr. Tsutsumi emphasized that these examples
illustrate the efforts that MSA is making to better serve University of Michigan
students.
Next he introduced Mr. Jim Secreto, MSA vice president, and Mr. Rob
Goodspeed, co-chair of the Student Rights Commission. Mr. Secreto talked about the
new revisions to the Code of Student Conduct (which has been renamed the Statement
of Student Rights and Responsibilities), expressing disappointment that only 8 of the 36
amendments that had been proposed by MSA had been accepted, and 4 of the 8 changes
were semantic in nature.
Mr. Goodspeed reviewed the code amendment process and commented that
acceptance of only a fraction of the student-proposed amendments could leave the
impression that students did not have as much input as they should have. He expressed
the hope for better communication between MSA and the administration in dealing with
matters involving the code.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Audrey L. Jackson, alumna, on evaluation of UM Regents by Michigan citizens; Gary S.
Hann, alumnus, on continued harassment and violation of his First Amendment rights;
Masakazu Sueda, on Daisaku Ikeda, mentor in life. The following people addressed the
Board on planning between the Ann Arbor Transportation Authority and the University of
Michigan involving campus bus service and the general issue of labor outsourcing:


195




February Meeting, 2001


Michael A. Dover, student and member of the University Committee for Fair Public
Employment Practices; Jeremy Molenda, student; Marisa Arnold, staff; Kevin Reynard,
staff; Scott Burkhart, staff; Ari Paul, student and member of Students Organizing Labor
and Economic Equality; Kwajalynn Burks, student and member of Black Students' Union
at UM-Dearborn; Jackie Bray, student and member of Students Organizing Labor and
Economic Equality; Michael Edwards, president of AFSCME Local 1583; Sharlene
Myers-Krupnak, staff representative, AFSME Council 25; and Cheryl McCreary, staff
specialist, AFSME Council 25.
Following Public Comments, the meeting recessed at 5:00 p.m.
Friday, February 16, 2001
The Regents met at 9:35 a.m. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also
present were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Executive Vice President Omenn
arrived at about 9:50 a.m. Provost Cantor, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
and Vice President Ulaby were absent.
Call to Order
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called for continuation of the
Consent Agenda.
Voluntary Support.     Vice President Feagin submitted Reports of Voluntary
Support for December 31, 2000 and January 31, 2001.
Virginia Allan Estate
for the Bentley Historical Library.............................................. $  42,000
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 104,636
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 25,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for the American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education Fellowship in
the College of Pharmacy....................................................... 27,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts........... 11,250
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in  the  M edical School............................................... 40,000
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
3,521 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 203,958
Abel A. Applebaum Family Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the David B. Hermelin Professorship in the School of Business Administration...... 100,000
Kriss Arbury, Midland
6,200 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 212,544
Mary J. Archer, Dearborn
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................  10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 48,917
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the Schmidt Family Endowed Scholarship and
for other support in the Medical School........................................... 50,000


196




February Meeting, 2001


Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing............................... 165,425
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................... 10,000
John S. Bandfield, Clearwater, Florida
for the John S. and Katherine J. Bandfield Student Loan Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
Marj Baril, Perrysburg, Ohio
for the James D. Baril, M.D., Endowment in the Medical School....................... 10,000
BASF Corporation, Budd Lake, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 14,000
Frank W. Batsch, Naples, Florida
800 shares of Lancaster Colony Corporation common stock
for the Barbara and Frank Batsch Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 20,875
Cheryl Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Harvey G. Behner, Sylvania, Ohio
for the H & J Behner Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 10,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Bentley Seminar Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 11,550
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
400 shares of Texaco, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 23,038
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 20,000
Bishop International Airport Authority, Flint
for  W U O M..................................................................  10,800
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
750 shares of Allstate Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 30,375
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................................... 20,000
Lee L. Boysel, San Francisco, California
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 10,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the  University  Library......................................................  10,000
John T. Buck, Farmington
2,000 units of Putnam International Growth Fund mutual fund
for the Golf Hole Endowment in the Department of Athletics.......................... 47,600
Bugas Fund, Jackson
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund in the Medical School............. 25,000
John D. Bunbury, Rockford
1,735 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 96,375
John W. Butler, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Lucille Miller and John W. Butler, Sr., Scholarship in the Law School............ 15,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
110 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Discretionary Fund in
the School of Business Administration and
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,598
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
Charles F. Cannell, Ann Arbor
1,814 units of Armada Large Cap Ultra Fund mutual fund
for the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research... 27,830
Alfred J. Capoferi, St. Clair Shores
481 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and for the University Hospitals........ 21,149
David Carlyon, Larchmont, New York
200 shares of NCR common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,050
Laurie K. Carr Trust
for the Lloyd H. Carr Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....................... 50,000
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.. 50,000


197




February Meeting, 2001


Client Business Services, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida
for support in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the
School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 13,500
Cole-Belin Education Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the David W. Belin Phi Beta Kappa Merit Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 40,000
James P. Conley, Ann Arbor
300 shares of National-Oilwell, Inc., common stock
for the Conley Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,013
Jane Wilson Coon Trust
for the William W. Coon, M.D., Endowment in the Medical School.................... 40,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Law and Music and
for the Museum of Art, the Exhibit Museum and the Matthaei Botanical Gardens......... 11,607
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis, Indiana
300 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the Gayle C. Crick Scholarship for Women and
for other support in the College of Pharmacy....................................... 28,144
Sheila A. Crowley, Ann Arbor
1,562 shares of various corporate common stock and
70 units of Vanguard Health Care Fund mutual fund
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center..............................................  100,214
John E. Dahlgren, Punta Gorda, Florida
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund, in memory of Hilda and Hailey Miles..... 20,000
Dearborn Federal Credit Union, Dearborn
for support in the School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 15,000
Warren P. DeLand, Keene, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................... 20,000
Angela DelVecchio, Ann Arbor
for the Angela DelVecchio Endowed Scholarship in the School of Nursing and
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Clements Library............... 10,050
Joann Diebolt Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 100,000
Robert P. Dobbie, Jr., Lincolnshire, Illinois
7,905 shares of Baxter International common stock
for the Dobbie Family Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the Schools of Medicine and Nursing....................... 673,901
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
400 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Professorship in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts..... 26,013
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for research in the School of Public Health........................................  40,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for the Herbert and Grace Dow Foundation Endowment in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 498,481
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Elkes Fund for Faculty Excellence in the Law School......................... 250,000
Executive Recruiters, Southfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,000
Exxon Corporation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Undergraduate Ocean Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering............ 10,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 25,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 50,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Solar Car Project Fund and
for other support in the College of Engineering..................................... 60,000
Foundation for Psychobiologic Research, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 50,000
George B. Foussianes, New York, New York
for the Foussianes Family Scholarship and
for other support in the Department of Athletics....................................  22,000


198




February Meeting, 2001


Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for the Samuel Shetzer Endowed Professorship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 162,500
M. Anthony Garland, London, England
for the Residential College Multicultural Initiative Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,001
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Charles Gelman Trust
for the Isadore Bernstein Fund in the School of Public Health,
for the Henry J. Meyer Fellowship in the School of Social Work,
for support in the Medical School, and
for support in the Clements Library........................................ 26,150
Paul W. Gikas, Ann Arbor
for the John and Minnie Gikas Endowed Fellowship in the Medical School............. 18,143
Goodrich Foundation, New York, New York
for the University  Library......................................................  15,000
Norman N. Gottlieb, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Vivian Sosna Gottlieb Endowment in the School of Art and Design and
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,544
Beverly J. Gray, Gulf Shores, Alabama
1,000 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for support in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 42,938
Howard I. Green, Beverly Hills, California
for the Howard Green Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for gifts pending  designation................................................... 399,915
William C. Greer, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Curtis W. Greer Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 50,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute and
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies.....................................................  15,500
Kate Haddox, Columbus, Ohio
1,046 shares of Huntington Bancshares, Inc., common stock
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................... 15,690
Roy E. Halladay Scholarship Fund, Detroit
for the Roy  E. Halladay  Scholarship.............................................. 12,500
Harlan Foundation, Williamsburg
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 10,000
A. J. Harris, Washington, DC
for the Jean M. Dunlap Memorial Scholarship in the School of Art and Design........... 100,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
400 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 34,689
William F. Hunting, Andover, New Hampshire
378 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,218
Martha D. Hurst, Fort Myers, Florida
189 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for the Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,005
Marise Ann Hussey, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin
for support in  the School of Education............................................  12,500
IMRE, Singapore
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for political science support,
for the Askwith Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Bertram J. Askwith Prize Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies..................................................... 91,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  30,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000


199




February Meeting, 2001


Orpha Irwin Trust
for scholarships in the Medical School..........................................  669,584
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
250 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Isaacs Kappmeyer Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 11,109
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School...................... 180,604
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation Fund in the Medical School............. 220,000
Larry Lane Johnson Trust
for women's gymnastics support in the Department of Athletics........................ 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research............... 147,981
Willard H. Johnson, Jr., Chelsea
189 shares of Axa Financial common stock
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 10,462
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
for the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Snip Nalan Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......................... 30,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
300 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics and the Law School,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 28,033
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Pasadena, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
C. Robert Kidder, New Albany, Ohio
1,533 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the C. Robert and Mary Kidder Endowed Scholarships in
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts....................... 49,727
Miles S. King, Boulder, Colorado
82 shares of Procter & Gamble Company and
80 shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., common stock
for gifts pending  designation....................................................  10,160
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, New York, New York
for the Visiting Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 40,000
Rhea K. Kish Trust
for the Leslie Kish Fund in the Institute for Social Research........................... 20,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Forney Clement Fund in the University Hospitals............................. 14,398
Arthur Kochoff, Dearborn Heights
305 shares of RJ Reynolds Tobacco Holdings, Inc., common stock and
a Wayne Charter municipal bond
for support in the College of Arts, Sciences and Letters at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................ 114,021
William E. Kogen, Boonton, New Jersey
1,878 units of American New Perspective mutual fund
for the Canham Natatorium in the Department of Athletics............................ 50,000
Louis and Esther Lamed Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation of Detroit
for the Esther and Louis Lamed Fund for Yiddish Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Judi Leal, New York, New York
for the  Zenkel Family  Fund.....................................................  10,000
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
140 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Endowment Funds in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  13,602
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  41,250
Mrs. William J. Leveque, Jr., Bainbridge Island, Washington
250 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 25,242
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
250 shares of Home Depot, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,531


200




February Meeting, 2001


Robert R. Levine, Clifton, Virginia
170 shares of USA Education, Inc., common stock
for the Robert R. Levine Endowed Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for the Hermann F. Weiss/Charles A. Partin Endowed Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,434
Seymour Lieberman, New York, New York
3,700 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Daniel Katz Graduate Award Fund in the Institute for Social Research........... 102,169
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Hunein F. Maassab, Ann Arbor
for the H. F. Maassab Student Research Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 10,000
Alan W. MacCarthy Trust
for the Alexander G. Ruthven Museum Fund....................................... 15,000
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 15,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Tom and JoAnn Maentz Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...... 50,000
Donald H. Malloure, Beverly Hills
2,170 shares of Viacom, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering, and for WFUM-TV........................ 118,836
Manitoba Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  150,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  33,325
Richard E. Marsh, San Marino, California
7,660 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Marsh Family Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  298,006
Richard B. Marsh Trust
for the Michigan Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 25,000
Robert V. Martelli, Bloomfield Hills
11,400 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Robert V. Martelli Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering.................................. 536,156
Marilyn M. Mason, Ann Arbor
269 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in Organ,
for the Robert Glasgow Scholarship in Organ,
for other support in the School of Music,
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,963
Nancy A. Mathiowetz, Arlington, Virginia
600 shares of IMS Health Systems, Inc., common stock for
the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research...... 16,256
Loretta Matthews Memorial Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Robert Ford............. 26,000
Olivia P. Maynard and S. Olof Karlstrom, Goodrich
2,725 shares of Procter & Gamble common stock
for support in the School of Social Work,
for the Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning Gift Fund, and
for the Signe Karlstrom Memorial Event Program in Swedish Studies Endowment in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of Signe Karlstrom.......... 201,650
Anne L. McGrew, Walnut Creek, Ohio
5,254 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Anne L. McGrew Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
scholarship support for women in art fields of study for political science support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the  M ichigan  League......................................................  115,373
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,350 shares of Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School...................... 298,450
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for instructional support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................... 679,699
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering........................................  120,000


201




February Meeting, 2001


Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the Ansbacher Resident and Fellow Education and Research Fund in
the Medical School........................................................... 10,000
Nathan Milstein, Indianapolis, Indiana
2,820 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Nathan and Rose Milstein Research in Juvenile Diabetes Fund in
the Medical School.........................................................  102,225
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for research in the Medical School............................................... 10,000
National Psoriasis Foundation, Portland, Oregon
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 150,000
Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Vero Beach, Florida
7,300 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 497,997
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Virginia S. Nicklas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Education,
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the  University  Library......................................................  13,750
Charles F. and Ann E. Meckes Niemeth Foundation Fund of
the Fairfield County Foundation, Inc., Wilton, Connecticut
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 25,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry........... 31,400
Margaret J. Odiorne, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the George S. Odiorne Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 10,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 62,500
Richard H. F. Pao, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Professor Miranda Lee Pao Memorial Fund in the School of Information.......... 54,719
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation research funds in the Medical School................ 100,633
Ara G. Paul, Ann Arbor
850 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the Ara G. and Shirley W. Paul Scholarship,
for other support in the College of Pharmacy,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Faculty Women's Club Endowment Fund.................................... 62,632
Roslyn Braeman Payne, San Francisco, California
for the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
Pearsall Family Foundation, Oak Park, Illinois
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Frederick J. Peterson Estate
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 50,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and
for support in the College of Pharmacy..........................................  142,500
William F. Piper Trust
for the support in the Medical School
and for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 10,000
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust, Southfield
for patient services support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................... 20,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Andrew S. Price, Media, Pennsylvania
500 shares of Sun Microsystems, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 14,984
James R. Quinn, Bloomfield Hills
496 shares of Lucent Technologies, Inc., common stock and


202




February Meeting, 2001


471 shares of Visteon Corporation common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 13,588
Marian Beardslee Raymond, Dunedin, Florida
1,150 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Anson G. and Marian Beardslee Raymond Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the School of Education and the College of Engineering......... 100,478
Gary A. Reneau, Detroit
for WUOM..................................................................10,000
William B. Richards, Indianapolis, Indiana
120 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in
the  College  of Engineering....................................................  10,901
Roy H. Roberts, Naples, Florida
54,400 shares of National City Corporation and a cash gift
for the Roy H. Roberts Endowed Professorship in Dentistry in the School of Dentistry... 2,000,000
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........ 10,200
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
145 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the University Musical Society and for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology.......... 13,286
Lois R. Ross Trust
for the Coleman and Lois Ross Scholarship and
for the FWT Learning Resources Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint............... 50,000
Joseph E. Rowe, Xenia, Ohio
for the Class of 1951 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Rudolph/Libbe, Inc., Walbridge, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 20,000
Lisa A. Rye, Bloomfield Hills
for the Greenfield Commercial Credit Endowed Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
Saddle Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Carole Holmes Fund for Pediatrics in the Medical School....................... 40,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 48,548
Priscilla A. Schwartz, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the Priscilla A. Schwartz Scholarship in the School of Nursing..................... 250,000
John B. Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
5,000 shares of R.R. Donnelly & Sons Company common stock
for the John Butler Schwemm Fund in the Law School.............................. 111,406
Seattle Foundation, Seattle, Washington
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......... 13,150
Langley R. Shook, Washington, DC
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Stanley A. Smith, Okemos
for the James E. Harris Craniofacial Biometric Program Fund in the School of Dentistry.... 50,000
SmithKline Beecham Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the research in the College of Pharmacy........................................ 25,000
Darryl L. Snider, Los Angeles, California
800 shares of Oracle Corporation of common stock and
25 shares of Nokia common stock
Ifor the Darryl Snider Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 19,700
Solidica, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold and Kathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  10,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
1,000 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the George E., Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Law School Fund in the Law School...... 60,246
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 15,000
Stanley S. Stroup, San Francisco, California
300 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 14,578
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
160 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock


203




February Meeting, 2001


for the Dan Baker Symons Scholarship and
for other support at the University of Michigan..................................... 11,630
G. Leonard Teitelbaum, Holmdel, New Jersey
for endowment support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 100,000
Telcordia Technologies, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Engineering Program in
the College of Engineering.....................................................  25,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund and
for other support in the School of Business Administration........................... 70,000
Constance L. Tilley, Gaithersburg, Maryland
for the support in the Alumni Association in memory of Mary A. Etten Tilley............ 20,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 600,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 150,000
Stefan F. Tucker, Washington, DC
580 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Stefan and Marilyn Tucker Scholarship in the Law School...................... 21,868
Claire Lenz Turcotte, Ann Arbor
1,414 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in the Medical School,
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and
for  the  M useum   of A rt.........................................................  51,131
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Ann Arbor
967 units of Nicholas Fund mutual fund
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in
the  M edical School...........................................................  65,010
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for support in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 333,334
United Way, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center...............................................  30,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC., Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship................... 10,000
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School............... 10,000
Doug T. and Laurie J. Valassis, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the George F. Valassis Endowed Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Trust
for research and the Valassis Professorship in the Medical School..................... 250,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D., Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School........... 50,000
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Medical School,
and  for the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center............................................. 15,000
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
465 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Richard A. Epstein Visionary Fund in the Medical School...................... 27,479
George E. Wantz, New York, New York
1,400 shares of various corporate common stock for
the George E. Wantz Professorship in the History of Medicine in the Medical School...... 89,350
Gail and Lois Warden Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health........ 10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Professorship of Sustainable Systems in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 125,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for special exhibitions support in the Museum  of Art................................. 10,000
Anthony J. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................  10,000
David Westin, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000


204




February Meeting, 2001


Kenneth Whipple, Bloomfield Hills
435 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,087
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 17,725
George C. Willson III Estate
for the George C. Willson III Fund in the Law School............................. 1,290,000
James H. Wineman, Southfield
300 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the John H. Wineman Education Fund in the Medical School....................... 20,784
Wolf Family Foundation, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in  the  M edical School................................................ 10,000
Work Place Integrators, Bingham Farms
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................ 10,000
Kirk D. Wuepper Estate
for the Kirk D. Wuepper Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Kirk D. Wuepper Professorship of Investigative Dermatology in the Medical School.... 35,878
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
1,295 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Richard Yarmain Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for the Agnes, Harry and Richard Yarmain Fellowship and
for the Yarmain Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 54,934
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law Scholarship in the Law School................................ 50,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 30,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell Professorship in the Economic of Risk and
for the Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 700,000
Jon and Kathy Zeschin Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Funds,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  15,000
William J. Abraham, Jr., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
349 shares of Sun Microsystems common stock
for the Foley &  Lardner Fund in the Law  School.................................... 10,743
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 33,000
Alcoa, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute and
for other support in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  90,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  49,600
Jack R. Alford, Jericho, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  11,650
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  96,301
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  13,298
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,423
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Research Fund and
other support in the Medical School,
for support in the School of Social Work, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  31,000
George E. Anderson, Franklin
for the Class of 1931 Engineers Scholarship in the College of Engineering............... 14,246
Frances I. and Parker B. Arnett Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Frances I. and Parker B. Arnett Graduate Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for Frances and Parker Arnett Endowment in the University Library................... 330,000


205




February Meeting, 2001


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the Institute for Social Research................ 55,008
Arthur Andersen LLP Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts....................................................  21,335
Michael and Rose Assarian Family Foundation, Southfield
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 50,000
Axcan Scandipharm, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama
for research in the College of Pharmacy.......................................... 10,900
Bank One Corporation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society............................................... 30,000
Peggy Bauervic Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School............. 15,000
Harvey G. Behner, Sylvania, Ohio
for the H & J Behner Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 20,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Endowed Fund in the Law School....................... 200,000
Herbert A. Beyer Trust
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
and the College of Engineering................................................. 15,000
Menefee D. Blackwell Estate
for the Stephen M. Blackwell Scholarship in the Law School.......................... 20,000
BMW North America, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 15,000
William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Charitable Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation,
Clifton Park, New York
for William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund in the Law School........................ 120,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Gift Fund....................................  10,000
Thomas H. and Polly Bredt Trust, Portola Valley, California
62,500 shares of Nortel Networks Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  1,988,281
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 20,000
John D. Bunbury, Rockford
1,412 shares of IBM Corporation common stock and
539 shares of American Express Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration..... 150,334
Van A. Burd, Cortland, New York
1,538 shares of Qwest Communications International common stock
for the Van Akin and Julia Burd Fund for Research in English in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................. 67,095
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
275 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 25,137
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
110 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Discretionary Fund in
the School of Business Administration and
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,598
Emily C. Chang, Pacific Palisades, California
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
Chevron Products Company, Concord, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............ 10,000
Cleveland A. Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
College on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,750
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Robert and Marianna Transou Scholarship in the College of Engineering.......... 50,000
Robert D. Cook, Manchester
for the Beatrice Mae Jeffrey Pediatric Research Fund and
the David Allen Hunsberg Research Fund in the Medical School,
for the Hazel G. Stimpson Fund in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and
for  W U O M................................................................. 100,050
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other scholarship support in
the  School of M usic........................................................... 25,700


206




February Meeting, 2001


John Corritore, Paradise Valley, Arizona
for the Men's Gymnastics Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,000
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
514 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy.............. 24,030
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 30,450
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
Charles E. Dart Trust
for the Charles E. Dart Fellowship in the College of Engineering....................... 11,483
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
300 shares of Texas Instruments, Inc., common stock
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Education.................. 14,400
Harold N. Davis, Dexter
9,000 shares of Checkfree Corporation restricted stock
for gifts pending designation................................................... 469,336
Arthur Vining Davis Foundation, Jacksonville, Florida
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  199,738
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Environmental Interpretive Center Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 25,000
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  250,940
Merle L. Dinsmore Estate
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  22,287
Herbert D. Doan, Midland
for support in the Nanobiologic Center in the Medical School......................... 87,000
Herbert and Junia Doan Foundation, Midland
for support in the Nanobiologic Center in the Medical School......................... 80,000
Domino's Pizza, Ann Arbor
for the Yaffee Collaborative Center Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 10,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and the Varsity Tennis Complex in the Department of Athletics.......... 12,500
Doshay Family Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 75,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 112,660
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  88,910
Harold C. Early Trust
for the Harold C. Early Assistant Professor Research Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 120,000
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for electrical and computer engineering fellowships in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  25,400
John R. Edman, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  11,500
El Adobe Corporation, Santa Barbara, California
for the Richard A. Auhll Professorship in the College of Engineering.................. 300,000
Elf Exploration, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  25,000
Gayle E. Ellias, White Lake
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 10,000
Frederick A. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
10,960 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment Fund in
the Schools of Business Administrations and Natural Resources and Environment........ 372,327
David S. Evans, Wilmette, Illinois
650 shares of Pulte Corporation common stock


207




February Meeting, 2001


for the Louis Evans Special Program in History Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 27,767
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 15,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Under-Represented Students Scholarship and the Women's Initiative in
Leadership Program Fund in the School of Business Administration................... 10,000
Ruth Fine Estate
for support in the School of Information......................................... 220,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Medical School, and
for other scholarships and student aid at the University of Michigan................... 57,000
Russell A. Fisher Estate
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 50,072
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Visitor's Center Exhibit Fund at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................................. 50,000
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 62,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering,
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute, and
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  105,636
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  95,045
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 50,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jane Kenyon Endowed Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 50,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
10,000 units of Kayne Anderson Money Market mutual fund
for support in the School of Education and
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Ruth T. Freeman Trust
for the Ruth T. Freeman Endowment Funds in the Medical School.................... 228,572
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
1,197 shares of Houghton Mifflin Company common stock
for the Edward P. Frohlich Graduate Fellowship in Piano Fund and
other support in the School of Music and
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 52,107
Ralph W. Garlick, Grand Rapids
800 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for men's soccer support and the Ralph and Susan Garlick Scholarship in
the  Departm ent of Athletics..................................................... 32,350
Larry J. Gerbens, Grand Rapids
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 10,000
William G. Glesner, Jr., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................  10,000
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
Goldman, Sachs & Company, New York, New York
for student aid and the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Graham Endowment Fund in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering......... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the School of Education...........................................  53,432
James and Nancy Grosfeld Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Medical School........... 20,000


208




February Meeting, 2001


Kalvin M. Grove, Pass A Grille Branch, Florida
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000
Guide Corporation, Pendleton, Indiana
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Craig Gurian, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...................... 20,000
Donald Hall, Danbury, New Hampshire
for the Jane Kenyon Endowed Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 20,000
Hanes Fund, Kalamazoo
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 20,000
Verl J. Hawks Trust
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 57,769
Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Fund, Overland Park, Kansas
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship,
the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship, and
the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for the University  Library..................................................... 446,084
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Population Studies Center in the Institute for Social Research.................... 75,000
Donald B. Hirsch, Silver Spring, Maryland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 10,000
Hitachi, Brisbane, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Jeffrey K. Hoffman, Dayton, Ohio
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School.......... 20,000
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor
1,500 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock
for the Trudy Huebner Dance Scholarship in the School of Music...................... 64,078
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program in Pediatric Dentistry Fund in the School of Dentistry and
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint....................................  116,866
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 42,500
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Romulus
for the Center for Heritage Landscaping Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..... 23,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 74,500
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the School of Information......................................... 113,500
International Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Foley & Lardner Fund in the Law School and
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 16,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
1,500 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Verne G. Istock Scholarship and other support in the School of Business Administration,
for support in the Schools of Education and Music,
for the Donald F. Warnke Scholarship and other support in
the College of Literature, Science,
and for the Arts and for the Alumni Association....................................  54,000
Evelyn Iversen, Kalamazoo
170 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for the Amelia Kulesa Konopka Endowed Fund in Polish Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,000
Jandernoa Charitable Annuity Lead Trust
for the Susan and Michael J. Jandernoa Professorship in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 300,000
Johnson Controls Foundation Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
Evlyne Johnson Trust
for the  M ichigan  League.......................................................  36,000


209




February Meeting, 2001


Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the School of Medicine, the School of Public Health,
and the Institute for Social Research........................................... 3,952,459
JSI, Boston, Massachusetts
for building renovation support in the School of Public Health......................... 10,000
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support and
for the Frankel Family Graduate Student Aid Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 176,843
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,500 shares of MGI Pharmx, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics................................... 24,481
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 13,631
Kapnick Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Harvey Kapnick Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 35,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Information.......................................... 25,000
Kerr, Russell and Weber, PLC, Detroit
for the Clements Library, in memory of Roy H. Christiansen.......................... 10,000
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  15,000
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund of
the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Dean Gorham Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..... 10,000
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
450 shares of Medarex, Inc., common stock
for the Cary and Kathy Klein Endowed Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 21,502
Robert M. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Robert M. and Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship in the Law School....... 14,706
Gloria Kramer, St. Clair Shores
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  12,500
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Temecula, California
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Edward T. Leonard Estate
for educational support in the Medical School..................................... 100,000
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1972 Medical School Fund and other support in the Medical School....... 12,500
Mark J. Levick, Atlanta, Georgia
250 shares of Home Depot, Inc., common stock
for support of the Law School and
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,005
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 15,000
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
L. S. & Company, Palo Alto, California
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Carol L. Makielski, Ann Arbor
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 15,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  63,831
Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Turner Geriatrics Center and
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 525,000
John T. Matthews, Jackson, Tennessee
189 units of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Dividend Growth Securities Fund mutual fund
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School.......... 10,236
Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
McKinley Financial Partnership 1, Ann Arbor
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  20,000
McKinsey & Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000


210




February Meeting, 2001


Thomas E. McPhee, Northville
for the McGinn and Zalupski Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for  W UO M..................................................................20,100
Mental Illness Research Association, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School............................................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering and
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 52,000
Michigan State Medical Society, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School............................. 13,000
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
1,800 shares of Old Kent Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the Bentley Historical Library................................................ 74,444
John Moores, San Diego, California
12,500 shares of Peregrine Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and   the  A rts................................................................  266,016
Morgan Stanley & Company, Inc., Brooklyn, New York
for the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Fellowship and Internship Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 47,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
1,000 shares of Citigroup common stock
for the Mortenson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 51,594
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Curt Reimann Quality Leadership Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 40,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  72,200
Donald J. Munro, Ann Arbor
435 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Tang Junyi Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 39,952
Edward W. Muransky, Tampa, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................  10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 30,000
National Christian Charitable Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 50,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division.................................... 11,710
Homer A. Neal, Ann Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment Fund............................... 10,000
Robert D. Neary, Naples, Florida
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 90,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Yorba Linda, California
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry.......................... 25,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
834 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for the Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School............................ 78,109
Aino W. Osterberg, Dearborn
226 shares of SBC Communications common stock
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,742
Stuart B. Padnos, Holland
for the Barbara Padnos Research Fund in the Medical School........................ 100,000
David K. Parse, Chicago, Illinois
350 shares of Tibco Software Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................  18,080
Randolph Paschke, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for the Arthur Andersen Fund for the Paton Accounting Center and other support in
the School of Business Administration, and
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 15,100
Albert B. Perlin, Jr., Captiva, Florida
350 shares of Target Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,817


211




February Meeting, 2001


Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the Law  School................................................... 10,000
Norman G. Peslar, Warren
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute........................................... 75,000
Kate A. Peyser, Scarborough, New York
2,225 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for research in the School of Public Health....................................... 100,542
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and
for the University Musical Society............................................... 21,942
Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Pharmacia and Upjohn Endowments in the Schools of Business Administration,
Medicine and Public Health...................................................  300,000
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 60,000
George J. Platsis, Okemos
for the Arthur and Mary Platsis Fund for the Greek Classical Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 80,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute................................ 15,000
Allan T. Popelka, Pacific Palisades, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  18,000
Poweron Technologies, Inc., Tempe, Arizona
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 24,000
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 15,000
Richard L. Prager Trustee, Ann Arbor
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School.......... 10,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..... 51,000
James W. Rae, Leland
for the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Endowment in the Medical School.......... 25,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  110,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 125,000
Richard 0. Rieger, Bedford, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 15,000
Otto K. Riegger, Ann Arbor
500 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the Van Vlack Family Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 22,672
Sarah B. Riggs, Ann Arbor
565 units of U.S. Global Leaders Growth Fund mutual fund
for the Susan Lipschutz Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies............................................................  14,910
Roy H. Roberts Charitable Lead Trust, Naples, Florida
for the Dr. Roy and Mrs. Natalie Roberts Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 212,065
Bennett W. Root, Jr., Huntington Beach, California
5,000 shares of Safety Associates, Inc., common stock
for the Bennett W. Root, Jr., Endowment in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 27,000
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
200 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,213
Dominic Rossi Trust
for J. and K. Evelyn Healy Rossi Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for the Joan Katherine Rossi Memorial Voice Scholarship in the School of Music......... 36,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for student aid  in  the M edical School............................................. 30,000
Marion W. Ryan Trustee, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for the  M ichigan  League.......................................................  25,100
Michael A. Sakkinen Estate
for the Michael and Joan Sakkinen Endowment in the School of Business Administration.. 250,000
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand Ripley Schemm Endowment in the Medical School................... 74,092
Gertrude J. Schiff Estate
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  59,955


212




February Meeting, 2001


Schreiber Foundation for Cancer Research, Holland
for research in the School of Public Health........................................ 14,000
Secat, Inc., Lexington, Kentucky
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 45,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Palo Alto, California
for support of the Law  School................................................... 25,000
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro Fund of the Fleet Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Benson P. Shapiro Fund in the College of Engineering and
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 20,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship Fund in Chemical Engineering in the College of Engineering..... 23,552
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Women's Gymnastics Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 200,000
Susan M. Smith, Ann Arbor
460 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Susan Meredith Smith Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 14,433
SmithKline Beecham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Stefan S. Fajans/SmithKline Beecham Professorship in the Medical School...... 250,000
SmithKline Beecham Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts....................................................  10,924
Ari J. Spar, Chappaqua, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 10,000
Specs USA, Inc., Sarasota, Florida
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  11,700
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and in the Institute for Research on
W om en  and  Gender.......................................................... 219,250
Edward and Deanne Spiegel Foundation, Port Washington, New York
for the Ruth W. Harris Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology...................... 10,000
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship in the School of Public Health................... 10,000
Margaret G. Stewart Estate
for  W FU M..................................................................  12,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering....... 26,000
John Franklin Stone Trust
for the John Franklin Stone Cancer Research and Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.. 15,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for the Dean C. Storkan Endowed Scholarship in the Law School...................... 20,000
Frances T. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning and the School of Education and
for the  Alum ni A ssociation.....................................................  10,099
John W. Sweetland Trust
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts................................................................  275,000
Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc., Lincolnshire, Illinois
for fellowship  support in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Austin, Texas
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Borders Women's Basketball Scholarship in
the  Departm ent of Athletics..................................................... 10,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business Administration and
the  College  of Engineering....................................................  364,650
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred Taubman  Scholarship.............................................. 71,209
Arn H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
for the Arn Tellem Faculty Research Support Fund in the Law School................... 30,000
Charles E. Thomas, Jr. Lemoyne, Pennsylvania
for support in the Schools of Law and Music, and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  10,540
Robert B. Thomas, Redding, Connecticut
500 shares of Barra, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Nursing and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 25,322
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
468 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation common stock
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment in the Law School.................. 20,870
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Thrasher Research Fund in the School of Public Health........................ 23,276


213




February Meeting, 2001


Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................... 150,000
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering........................ 16,000
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
for the Robert A. Toigo Foundation MBA Fellowship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
for the Richard F. Towner Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering.....................................................  12,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration,
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School, and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  181,603
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Grosse Pointe
600 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for otolaryngology support in the Medical School................................... 10,575
George F. Valassis, Delray Beach, Florida
for the George F. and Sandra G. Valassis Professorship and
the George F. and Sandra G. Valassis Research Fund in the Medical School............. 200,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Education, and
for the building fund in the Division of Kinesiology.................................  10,500
Laurie and Timothy Wadhams Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School....................... 40,000
L. C. and Margaret Walker Foundation, North Muskegon
for  W U O M.................................................................. 25,000
Ward Lake Energy, Gaylord
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 27,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust
for the Roy E. Weber General Thoracic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School..... 25,000
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
3,000 shares of Ariba, Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment in the College of Engineering.......................... 104,438
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for the M useum   of Anthropology................................................  17,490
Jeffrey S. Williams, Saline
15,000 shares of Genomic Solutions, Inc., common stock
for endowment support in the Department of Athletics.............................. 117,656
George C Willson III Estate
for the George C. Willson III Fund in the Law  School................................ 12,241
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the School of Engineering Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 50,000
WPW, III Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
E. Lisk Wyckoff, Jr., New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 25,000
Samuel E. Wyly, Dallas, Texas
for Sam Wyly Hall in the School of Business Administration....................... 2,000,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Jerome Ash, Detroit
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz Library
Robert Bosson, South Bend, Indiana
the Bosson Family papers for the Clements Library
Carolyn Jo Bronson Estate
five 18th century French memoirs for the Clements Library
Joann S. Chalat, Grosse Pointe
a collection of books and materials illustrated by Arthur Rackham for the University Library
Cohn's Furniture, Muskegon Heights
various household furniture for the School of Dentistry
Ernest C. Fackler III, Dearborn
a collection of early 19th century manuscripts for the Clements Library


214




February Meeting, 2001


William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
41 books and other printed items for the University Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
six workstations for the College of Engineering
Long's Machinery Brokerage, Bakersfield, California
equipment for the Solar Car Team
Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Vero Beach, Florida
the Newnan Family papers for the Clements Library
Anna M. Palsky, Ann Arbor
otolaryngology head mirrors for the Department of Otolaryngology
Roberta Rizzardi Price, Ann Arbor
13 photograph albums chronicling American farm life, school life and other scenery for the
Clements Library
Nancy S. Schermerhorn, Royal Oak
one-half of the Van Vechten Family papers for the Clements Library
Jeanne S. Servis, Beverly Hills
one-half of the Van Vechten Family papers for the Clements Library
Snap-On, Inc., Kenosha, Wisconsin
a tool set for the Solar Car Team
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
10 binders of various printed items for the History of Art Department
Z. Vincent Taft, Syracuse, New York
153 books and 19 journals for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Walter J. Weber, Jr., Ann Arbor
property and a house for the Walter J. Weber Professorship
Anonymous Donor
art work for the Museum of Art
Valeria Colombatto-Brown, Farmington Hills
two paintings for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Berkowitz Gallery
John C. Dann, Dexter
14 books, a lithograph portrait, and a printed document signed for the Clements Library
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
a collection of historically important printed materials for the Clements Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the College of Engineering
Donald J. Lewis, Ann Arbor
a journal set for the Math Reading Room
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
a collection of historically important manuscripts, printed books, and ephemera relating to
American culinary history for the Clements Library
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn
historical transcripts, microfilm and records for the Clements Library
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
a software package for the College of Engineering
Paragon Die & Engineering Company, Grand Rapids
labor and materials for the College of Engineering
Performance Trailers, Madera, California
an awning frame for the Solar Car Team
Leland J. Quackenbush, Ann Arbor
a rare and historically important map of Michigan for the Clements Library
Eric B. Quist, Ann Arbor
fifty research and reference books for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
S-3 Engineering, Inc., Ann Arbor
engineering services for the Canham Natatorium
Sintel, Inc., Spring Lake
two vertical tool cabinets for the Solar Car Team
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
a Sun Enterprise 450 server family including two CPUs, monitor, and related software and
hardware for the College of Engineering


215




February Meeting, 2001


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors::


Art Van Furniture, Warren
George R. Bingham, Dearborn
Michael G. Birdsall, Ann Arbor
Lynne K. Charter, Plainwell
Geoffrey F. Compton, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
Sheila A. Crowley, Ann Arbor
Fine Flowers and Nina Studio, Ann Arbor
Sally Pyne Kennedy, Ann Arbor
Thomas C. Kingsley, Atlanta, Georgia
Jerome R. Koupal, Ann Arbor
William D. Merchant, Shelby Township
Jack E. Olds, Livonia
Mary E. W. Packard, Ypsilanti
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Joanna H. Schoff, Rye, New York
Ulrich's - BBM, Inc., Ann Arbor
George S. Watson, Milton, Massachusetts


Wild Birds Unlimited, Ann Arbor
Charles Witke, Ann Arbor
Phyllis B. Wright, Ann Arbor
Kimberly C. Beard, Southfield
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
George W. Buffington, San Francisco, California
David W. Cohen, Ann Arbor
Brian L. Dunnigan, Tecumseh
James W. Goss, Grosse Pointe Farms
A. Elizabeth Handy, Seaford, Delaware
John A. Helmuth II, Farmington Hills
Robert G. Kelly, Plymouth
Jeffrey W. Mansour, Flint
Ruth Mayday, Horton
Thomas Mobley, Grosse Pointe
Stephen A. Resnick, Cazenovia, New York


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Deloria, Philip J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001
Raghunathan, Trivellore E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Health, February 1, 2001
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on March 1, 2001
Moore, Kathleen A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies
Stevenson, James G., Pharm.D., Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dziekan, Julie A., Assistant Dean, UM-Dearborn School of Management, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Otto, Charlotte A., Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn Office of the Provost, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Calarco, Margaret M., Associate Hospital Administrator and Interim Chief of Nursing, University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, also appointed Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, School
of Nursing, December 1, 2000-November 30, 2001
Cope, Virgil, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Friesen, Lauren, Associate Professor of Theatre and Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Theatre and Dance, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Communication, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-June 2001


216




February Meeting, 2001


Glotzer, Sharon C., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
Halloran, John W., Alfred Holmes White Collegiate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2001-August 31, 2005
Lev, Benjamin, Chair, Department of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
Lozoff, Betsy, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health,
February 1, 2001-April 30, 2003
Ross, Marlon B., from Professor of English and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001
Somerman, Martha J., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
School of Dentistry, and Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Associate Dean for Research, School of Dentistry, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2005
APPROVAL OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Kilian, Lutz, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave of
absence
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Academic Administration Positions
Assistant Dean of Career Services, Law School, February 1, 2001
Assistant Dean of Financial Aid, Law School, February 1, 2001
Naming Professorship
Horace Williams King Collegiate Professorship in Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2001
Samuel Shetzer Endowed Professorship in Jewish American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2001
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Prokssorships
Abriola, Linda M., Horace Williams King Collegiate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2001
Brown, Richard B., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Brown, Susan H.C., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Bryant, Bunyan, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Coppola, Brian P., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Dennison, Joseph deBrune, Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, January 1, 2001
Morton, Adam, Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2001
Olsen, Laura J., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Olson, Gary M., Paul M. Fitts Collegiate Professor of Human Computer Interaction, School of
Information, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2005
Olson, Judith S., Richard W. Pew Collegiate Professor of Human Computer Interaction, School of
Information, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2005
Perkins, Noel C., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Other Transactions
Follansbee, George L. Jr., Assistant Dean for Development and Alumni Relations, Law School,
March 1, 2001-February 28, 2004


217




February Meeting, 2001


Frumkin, Jeffery R., Assistant Provost, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic
Affairs, February 19, 2001
Gottschalk, Katherine B., Assistant Dean for Financial Aid, Law School, Mary 1, 2001-February 28, 2004
Guindi, Susan Marie, Assistant Dean for Career Services, Law School, March 1, 2001-February 28, 2004
Hilton, James L., Associate Provost for Academic, Information, and Instructional Technology Affairs, Office
of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, February 17, 2001
Welsh, Michael J., Interim Chair, Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
September 1, 2000
Interim  Appointment Approval. The Regents authorized the president or the
provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such interim
appointments and/or changes as become necessary from January 1-31, 2001.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Ann Arbor Summer Festival Inc.
Schoenherr, Jeffrey A., December 1, 2000-November 30, 2003, vice Julie Ellison, term expired
Clements Library Committee of Management
McCorison, Marcus, October 24, 2000-June 30, 2003, vice Cleveland Thurber Jr., unable to complete
term
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studes Executive Board
Widner, Jennifer A., January 2-August 31, 2001, vice Susan M. Juster, on sabbatical leave
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Cimprich, Bernadine E., January 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akers-Jordan, Cathy M., M.L.S., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2000
Alvarado, Rudolph V., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Latino Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Baez, Thomas, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January
1-April 30, 2001
Bass, Christine K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Bauer, Jill M., M.A., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Brophy, Patrick D., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Carter, Prudence L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Clemens, Judith M., M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Conforth, Bruce M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Conjeevaram, Hari S., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
DeGroot, Frederick A., M.S., Lecturer in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2000
Flint, Leroy E., B.S., Lecturer in Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2000
Gates, Sondra S., B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Ghosh, Debashis, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
January 1-December 31, 2001


218




February Meeting, 2001


Harder, H. Kirk, M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Hill, Jeffrey C., B.S., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Hiraldo, Samiri H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Latino Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Kalmar, Pamela J., M.A., Lecturer in Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2000
Keppo, Jussi S., Dr.Tech., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
Kittay, Michael J., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, January 3-March 2, 2001
Lal, Jayati, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Marchetti, Silvia, B.A., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Marquardt, Catherine A., M.A., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Myers, David A., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 10-June 30, 2001
Novinskey, Christina M., B.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Orringer, Kelly A., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Pascual, Mercedes, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Pearce, Lisa D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Pike, Jay D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Plummer, Rebecca E., B.A., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Russell, Rachel M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Sevick, Michael C., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Smythe, Paul R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
November 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Tambling, Connie S., M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Taylor, Nikki M., M.A., Lecturer II in Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Urquhart, Andrew G., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Verhoogt, Arthur M. F. W., Assistant Professor of Papyrology and Greek, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Villanueva, Luis A., B.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2000
Weigel, Cathy F., M.S., Lecturer II in Inteflex, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Young, Stephanie K., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 10, 2001-January 9, 2002
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective February 15, 2000
Han, Lixing Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003 (previously reported as Lecturer in Mathematics)
Nwankwo, Ifeoma C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Assistant
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as Instructor in English Language and
Literature and Instructor in Afroamerican and African Studies)


219




February Meeting, 2001


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Kenneth R., from Lecturer II in Social Sciences and Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African
Studies to Lecturer II in Social Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Cortina, Lilia M., Assistant Professor of Psychology, also appointed Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Dawson, Laura A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, Medical
School, December 14, 2000-December 31, 2001
Freeman, Lee A., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems,
UM-Dearborn School of Management, January 1, 2001-April 30, 2003
Metzl, Jonathan M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, and from
Lecturer II to Assistant Professor of Women' s Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003
O'Reilly, Michael, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical
School, December 1, 2000-August 31, 2001
Rosenfeld, David M., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, also appointed Lecturer I in Japanese Literature,
Asian Languages, and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Wheeler, Margaret T., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, also appointed Lecturer II in Comparative
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-December 31, 2001
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Gomberg, Edith S., Professor Emertia of Psychology, Medical School, November 1, 2000-August 31, 2002
Ingram, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Kammash, Terry B., Stephen S. Atwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2001
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
November 1-30, 2000
Kornblum, Sylvan, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Malvin, Richard L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, January 1-December 31, 2001
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, January 1-April 30, 2001
Shafter, Edward M. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Engineering,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Wilkes, James O., Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cowen, Roy C. Jr., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000, retirement furlough January 1-May 31, 2001
Downs, Laura L., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Ertel, Inta J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2001
Farley, W. Reynolds, Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology and Professor of Sociology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Harrison, Kristen S., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001


220




February Meeting, 2001


Heirich, Jane R., Lecturer III in Music, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave,
January 1-May 31, 2001
Hinman, Peter G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2001
Hook, Peter E., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Kleinsmith, Lewis J., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2004
Lempert, Lora B., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Mackintosh, Frederick C., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Maixner, Susan M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 31, 2000-May 15, 2001
Mason, Jeffrey M., Arthur W. Burks Collegiate Professor of Information and Computer Science and
Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, Professor of Economics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure,
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Mazian, Florence I., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
extended sick leave, October 23, 2000-October 8, 2001
McIntosh, James H., Professor of English Language and Literature and American Culture, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2002,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Midgley, A. Rees Jr., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
January 1, 2001-December 31, 2002
Morley, Helen J., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Orady, Elsayed A., Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Pek, Sumer, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2000
Randolph, John F. Jr., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2001
Rodriguez-Hornedo, Nair, Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, College of Pharmacy,
sabbatical leave, January 15, 2001-January 14, 2002
Roehl, Richard W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts and Letters,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2001
Schippers, Eric D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, November 28, 2000-January 14, 2001
Silver, Terry M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 11, 2000-June 30, 2001
Singer, J. David, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2002
Strouse, Peter J., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave,
December 4, 2000-January 26, 2001
Valentino, Nicholas A., Assistant Professor of Communications Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2000
Wilkerson, Catherine E., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, reduction in
force, January 1-December 31, 2001
Wright, Susan P., Lecturer III in History of Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, January 1-February 18, 2001
Young, Elizabeth A., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 15-April 15, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
(previously reported as sabbatical leave)
Levine, Steven P., Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2001, retirement furlough, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2003


221




February Meeting, 2001


Velez-Aguayo, Evelyn, Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, duty off campus,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001 (previously reported as September 1-December 31, 2000)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on February 16, 2001
Ashe, Arthur J. III, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Sension, Roseanne J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Adler-Kassner, Linda, Assistant Professor of Composition and Rhetoric, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2001
Al-Khafaji, Basim M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pathology, Medical School, January 31, 2001
Becker, Mark P., Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of
Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
December 31, 2000
Chamberlain, Jeffrey S., Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Dorantes, Deanna M., Clinical Instructor II in Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 7, 2001
Howlin, Diane M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Komisar, June D., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2000
Mukherjee, Srilata, Lecturer in Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering, December 31, 2000
Paik, Juliana S., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 31, 2001
Pass, Helen A., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, November 30, 2000
Persell, Deborah J., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2000
Phipps, Maureen G., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, December 31, 2000
Pires, Tereza, Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 31, 2000
Piva, Maria P., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Santos-Burgoa, Carlos P., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health,
December 31, 2000
Shreve, Porter G., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2000
Sneyd, Alfred J. R., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Sonmez, Tayfun O., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Stetz, Sharon P., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2000
Warner, Amy J., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, December 31, 2000
Willis, Craig B., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, December 8, 2000
Wirth, Nancy E., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
December 22, 2000
Retired
Bradley, Bruce E., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, November 16, 2000
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2000
Sherman, James H., Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Smith, Joanne A., Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, December 31, 2000
Teichroew, Daniel, Professor of Industrial Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2000
Tentler, Thomas N., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Turcotte, Jeremiah G., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Zeit, Alois, Instructor in German, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 2000


222




February Meeting, 2001


Term Completed
Becker, Audrey L., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Bolig, Andrew D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Brent, Elizabeth S., Lecturer I in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Chang, Yi-Fen, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Dawson, Emily C., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Eldersveld, Samuel J., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Ivanitskaya, Leonora, Lecturer I in Performing Arts, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
2000
Jager, Colin L., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Kremer, Belinda K., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2000
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Marston, Wilfred G., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, April 30, 2000
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, April 30, 2000
Meyer, Stefan G., Lecturer II in Comparative Literature and Lecturer I in English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Patterson, Willis C., Professor Emeritus of Music, School of Music, April 30, 2000
Perez, Mariola, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeritus of Law,
December 31, 2000
Schoonhoven, Richard D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2000
Shappirio, David G., Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2000
Steinhoff, William R., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Waller, Patricia F., Professor Emerita of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
December 31, 2000
Williams, G. Brymer, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 31, 2000
Deceased
Elliker, Calvin H., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, January 14, 2001
Lillard, Lee A., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 2, 2000
CORRECTION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective February 15, 2000
Page, Scott E., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2000
(previously reported as Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of
Economics, without tenure)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption seven
retirement memoirs.
David E. Cole, Ph.D., associate professor of mechanical engineering in the
College of Engineering and research scientist in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on October 13,
2000.
Professor Cole received his B.S.M.E., M.S.M.E., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1960, 1961, and 1966, respectively. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty as an instructor in mechanical engineering in 1965 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1966 and associate professor in 1971. In 1978,
Professor Cole was named director of the Office for the Study of Automotive


223




February Meeting, 2001


Transportation (OSAT) in the College of Engineering, and in 1982 OSAT was
transferred to the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI).
He was appointed research scientist at UMTRI in 1991.
Professor Cole's early research involved the development and testing of rotary and
reciprocating spark-ignition engines, measurement of the dynamic and thermal
phenomena of engine fuels and combustion, and examination of influences on exhaust
emissions and fuel consumption. He has taught courses in automotive systems design
and engineering. For the past 25 years, his research has focused on strategic issues
related to the restructuring of the North American automobile industry and trends in
globalization, technology, market factors, and human resource requirements. Since
1975, he has guided the highly acclaimed annual University of Michigan Management
Briefing Seminar on future automotive trends, held each summer in Traverse City.
Professor Cole has been a member of the Energy Engineering Board of the National
Research Council and of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Pact Select Panel. He has served
two terms on the board of directors of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) and is
a fellow of SAE and of the Engineering Society of Detroit. He is a director of the
Original Equipment Suppliers Association and of the Automotive Hall of Fame, is a
member of the Hope College board of trustees, and serves on the boards of numerous
companies. His honors include Sweden's Order of the Polar Star (1994), the Rene Dubos
Environmental Award (1998), and France's Chevalier of the National Order of Merit
(1999).
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming David E. Cole
associate professor emeritus of mechanical engineering and research scientist emeritus.
Constance J. D'Amato, assistant professor of neurobiology in the Department of
Pathology, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000, after a productive
career.
A native of New York, Professor D'Amato received her B.S. degree from Tufts
University in 1955. From 1955-62, she served as senior research associate in the
Department of Pathology, Cancer Research Institute, New England Deaconess Hospital,
and Harvard Medical School. In 1962, she was recruited to the University of Michigan
along with Samuel P. Hicks, M.D., and joined the Department of Pathology as a
research associate. She was promoted to assistant professor of neurobiology in 1972.
Professor D'Amato's contributions to the Department of Pathology and to the
Neuropathology Section include her outstanding efforts as a researcher and a teacher.
She has directed the Neural and Behavioral Sciences course for many years and has
been recognized for excellence in teaching by Medical School students. She continues
to play a key role in the admissions selection process for medical students and serves as
a preprofessional counselor for premed students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated service
by naming Constance J. D'Amato assistant professor emerita of neurobiology.
Glenn F. Knoll, Ph.D., professor of nuclear engineering and radiological sciences
in the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Knoll received his B.S. degree from the Case Institute of Technology in
1957, his M.S. degree from Stanford University in 1958, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1963. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
assistant professor of nuclear engineering in 1962 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1967 and professor in 1972. Professor Knoll served as chair of the nuclear


224




February Meeting, 2001


engineering department for over a decade, from 1979-90, and as interim dean of the
College of Engineering during 1995-96.
Professor Knoll was a superb classroom teacher and a dedicated mentor to
numerous undergraduate and graduate students.  His highly acclaimed textbook,
Radiation Detection and Measurement, is in its third edition and has been used
extensively in experimental particle physics and nuclear medicine as well as in nuclear
engineering. A measure of his success as a teacher is that many of his former students
have assumed leadership positions in academia, industry, and national laboratories. His
pioneering work in radiation measurement techniques and detector development yielded
eight patents in detectors and signal processing.  The entire nuclear physics and
engineering community benefits from high-precision neutron cross section data that
Professor Knoll's laboratory produced over a span of three decades. His creative ideas
and techniques for radiation imaging have produced new methods for improving
accuracy in diagnosis and reduction in radiation doses for patients undergoing radiation
treatment.
As department chair and as interim dean, Professor Knoll was a forceful leader,
who was fair and considerate of colleagues and staff. He edited two prestigious
on Nuclear Science. He is a fellow of the American Nuclear Society and of the Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and is a recipient of the Arthur Holly Compton
Award of the American Nuclear Society and the Glenn Murphy Award of the American
Society for Engineering Education. He was elected a member of the National Academy
of Engineering in 1999.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Glenn F. Knoll
professor emeritus of nuclear engineering and radiological sciences.
Sumer B. Pek, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 2000, after a most productive career as a physician, researcher,
and teacher.
A native of Turkey, Dr. Pek received his B.S. degree from American Robert
College in Istanbul, Turkey, in 1953 and his M.D. degree from the University of Munich
School of Medicine in Munich, Germany, in 1959. He served internships at the
University of Munich Children's Hospital and at Wayne County (Michigan) General
Hospital in 1960-61 and completed his residency (1961-64) and a fellowship (1966-69)
at the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan Medical School
faculty as assistant professor of internal medicine in 1969. In 1972, he was appointed
associate professor of internal medicine at the University of Alabama School of
Medicine. In 1973, he returned to the University of Michigan as associate professor of
internal medicine and was promoted to professor in 1979.
Dr. Pek is an internationally recognized endocrinologist.  His most notable
achievements include his work on establishing systems for assessing glucagon and insulin
secretion and his series of studies defining the factors that regulate their secretion. He also
became the foremost authority in his field for his work in defining the role of prostaglandins
in the regulation of insulin secretion. In recognition of his scientific achievements, the
National Science and Technology Council of Turkey (TUBITAL) presented Dr. Pek with its
Scientific Achievement Award in 1996.
In addition to his research accomplishments, Dr. Pek made significant contributions
as chair of the Medical School Institutional Review Board for Human Subject Research.


225




February Meeting, 2001


In addition to implementing a computer-based system for this office, Dr. Pek established
standards for all aspects of studies involving human subjects at the University of
Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Sumer B. Pek professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Joanne A. Smith, associate professor of music (piano), retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Smith received her B.M. degree in piano performance from MacPhail
College of Music in 1960. From 1961-74, she was an independent piano instructor and
studied at the University of Denver, the University of Wisconsin, and the Cincinnati
College Conservatory of Music. She was an instructor of music at the Cincinnati
College Conservatory of Music from 1974-76 and received her M.M. degree there in
1978. From 1977-79, she was director of children's piano programs at the University of
Toledo and in 1979 she became director of the Creative Arts Program at Bowling Green
State University. She taught piano pedagogy at both the University of Toledo and
Bowling Green State University from 1977-83. Professor Smith joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1983 as assistant professor of music and was promoted to associate
professor in 1989.
Professor Smith was the sole teacher of piano pedagogy and founded and directed
the Piano Pedagogy Laboratory Program. She revitalized the curriculum in piano
pedagogy, and under her leadership the graduate program was selected by the National
Conference on Piano Pedagogy as one of four exemplary graduate degree programs to
serve as models for the National Association of Schools of Music accreditation. A
number of her students have been winners of the prestigious D. H. Baldwin Pedagogy
Awards.
Professor Smith was active in state and national professional associations and
served as music review editor for Piano Quarterly Magazine. She is the recipient of
numerous honors and awards. In 1985, in collaboration with colleagues in the Division
of Rehabilitation Engineering at the Medical School, she received a national award for
the development of a prosthesis for playing the piano. She was an exceptional teacher
and a national leader in the development and codification of piano pedagogy principles.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joanne A. Smith associate
professor emerita of music (piano).
Daniel Teichroew, Ph.D., professor of industrial engineering in the College of
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
A native of Canada, Professor Teichroew earned his B.A. (1948) and M.A. (1949)
degrees at the University of Toronto and his Ph.D. degree in 1953 at the University of
North Carolina. From 1952-55, he was a mathematician at the UCLA Institute for
Numerical Analysis and from 1955-57 he held several positions at the National Cash
Register Company. From 1957-64, he was associate professor (1957-62) and professor
(1962-64) of management at Stanford University. From 1964-68, he was professor and
head of the Division of Organizational Sciences at Case Western Reserve University. He
joined the University of Michigan Department of Industrial Engineering (now Industrial
and Operations Engineering) as professor and chair in 1968 and served as chair until 1973.
Professor Teichroew is the author or co-author of four books and numerous articles.
He is active in a number of professional organizations including the Institute of
Management Sciences, the Association for Computing Machinery, and the Society for


226




February Meeting, 2001


Management Information Systems (president, 1976). His early career was in experimental
statistics, but his interests later changed to computer and software engineering. Professor
Teichroew taught undergraduate and graduate computer engineering courses and served
as a member or chair of many doctoral committees. From 1968-83, he directed the
ISDOS (Information Systems Design and Optimization Systems) Project, which was one
of the most visible research programs in the College of Engineering. Under Professor
Teichroew's leadership, the project grew in size and reputation to a multi-million-dollar
funding level and encompassed over twenty industrial, educational, and government
organizations that implemented the research results. In 1991, he was awarded the Warnier
Prize for Excellence in Information Systems and was recognized as the "father of CASE"
(Computer Aided Software Engineering).
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Daniel Teichroew professor emeritus of industrial engineering.
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, M.D., professor of surgery, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 2000, after a most productive career as a surgeon, teacher, and
researcher.
Dr. Turcotte completed his B.S. and M.D. degrees in 1955 and 1957, respectively,
and served his internship and residency from 1957-63, all at the University of Michigan.
He joined the Department of Surgery faculty as an instructor in 1963 and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1968, and professor in 1971. From
1978-89, he held an additional appointment as the Frederick A. Coller Distinguished
Professor of Surgery.
An internationally recognized transplant surgeon, Dr. Turcotte participated in the
first kidney transplant at the University of Michigan in 1964 and performed the
University's first liver transplant in 1985. As a result of his skills, knowledge, and
leadership, the University's Transplant Division has developed into one of the most
important transplant centers in the United States. Under his guidance, dozens of general
surgery residents and transplant fellows have become leaders in general surgery and in
solid organ transplantation.
Dr. Turcotte served as chair of the Department of Surgery (1974-87) and twice
headed the Section of General Surgery (1976-81 and 1987-88). He has been director of
the Surgery Transplant Program (1964-84); the General Surgery Residency Program
(1976-87); the Organ Transplantation Center (1984-96); the Transplant and Health
Policy Center, (1985-95); and the Liver Transplant Program (1984-97). Dr. Turcotte is
active in 38 professional organizations and serves on the editorial board or as a reviewer
for such journals as Transplantation Proceedings, Surgery, and Archives of Surgery.
He is a member of the Board of Directors of the United Network for Organ Sharing
organization (UNOS) and will serve as its president in 2001-2002. He has been
president of a number of national and state professional organizations and has been a
governor of the American College of Surgeons and a director of the American Board of
Surgery. His awards include the University of Michigan Henry Russel Award (1970).
Dr. Turcotte has authored or co-authored 191 peer-review publications and 59 book
chapters and has edited or co-edited 8 books. He served as the first chair of the Ethics
Committees for both the American Society of Transplant Surgeons and UNOS.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Jeremiah G. Turcotte professor emeritus of surgery.


227




February Meeting, 2001


Memorials. Vice President Tedesco reported the deaths of three active faculty
members: Calvin H. Elliker, Jacqueline E. Lawson, and Lee A. Lillard.
Regarding Professor Lawson, President Bollinger observed that Jackie Lawson had
"an unflagging good spirit about her," always had a most positive attitude, and "seemed
as supportive of the University as any person as I have known."
Professor Bollinger also noted the deaths of Robert Kalmbach, recently retired
University photographer; Kenneth Pike, professor emeritus of linguistics; Neil Staebler,
former visiting professor of practical politics, recipient of an honorary Doctor of Laws
degree, and father-in-law of Regent McGowan; and Leonard Woodcock, adjunct
professor emeritus of political science department and China Studies Center.
Vice President Tedescoe submitted memorial statements for the three active
faculty members:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on January 14, 2001, of Calvin H. Elliker, Ph.D., assistant professor of
musicology, School of Music, and librarian, University Library.
Professor Elliker, who was head of the Music Library, received multiple degrees,
including a B.M. degree from the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music, an M.L.S. degree
from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, and an M.A. degree from the University
of Pittsburgh. He received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois and was a
longtime member of the Music Library Association.
Professor Elliker was a valued colleague and friend who had a distinguished career
in the University Library and School of Music. An accomplished musician and
outstanding scholar, Professor Elliker contributed generously both to the advancement
of the Music Library and more broadly to the profession through his numerous articles
and professional activities.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished colleague, scholar, and librarian, our
condolences go to his wife Susan Elliker, a librarian in the University Library.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on January 8, 2001, of Jacqueline E. Lawson, associate professor of English
language, literature and communications in the Department of Humanities, College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Born in Seattle, Washington, in 1951, Professor Lawson received her B.A. and
M.A. degrees from Western Washington University. She went on to earn her M.Phil.
degree from Simmons College and her Ph.D. degree from Brown University. She
joined the UM-Dearborn faculty in 1985.     Her teaching specialties included
18th-Century British and 20th-Century American literature, as well as press law and
ethics and the history of journalism.
In recognition of her commitment to her students, Professor Lawson was awarded
the UM-Dearborn Distinguished Teaching Award in 1986 and the Distinguished Faculty
Award in 1989 from the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of State
Universities. In 1998, she received the Faculty Appreciation Award from student
athletes for her outstanding support of academics and athletics.
Professor Lawson was widely known throughout the University for her efforts on
behalf of faculty governance. At UM-Dearborn, she served on numerous campus
committees, including the Faculty Advisory Committee on Campus Affairs and the


228




February Meeting, 2001


Academic Affairs Advisory Committee. She was chair of the Faculty Senate in
1995-1996. In Ann Arbor, she served two terms on the Senate Assembly, was a
member of the Provost's Advisory Committee, and in 1998 was elected to the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA). In 2000-01, Professor Lawson
served as chair of SACUA, the first person from the Dearborn or Flint campuses to be
elected to that position. Her admirable and energetic performance in this latter role has
been especially appreciated by faculty throughout the University of Michigan.
Professor Lawson made a powerful mark on the institution during her years at the
UM-Dearborn and profoundly affected all with whom she interacted, including students,
faculty, and staff. We will remember her for her intellectual vitality, her dedication to
faculty governance, and her unflagging willingness to speak her mind about the issues
that were important to her.
As we mourn the loss of this valued colleague, our condolences go to her husband,
Jonathan Smith, associate professor of English language and literature at UM-Dearborn,
and her family.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on December 2, 2000, of Lee A. Lillard III, professor of economics, director
of the University of Michigan Retirement Research Center, and senior research scientist
at the University of Michigan Institute for Social Research (ISR).
An applied econometrician and labor economist who worked with a long and
diverse list of co-authors, Professor Lillard made important contributions to the study of
marriage, fertility, divorce, mortality, intergenerational mobility, and a wide variety of
other issues of general interest.
While at the University of Michigan, Professor Lillard served as director of the
Michigan Retirement Research Center, a nationwide consortium of scholars interested
in the problems of aging. He also served as a member of the steering committee of the
University of Michigan Health and Retirement Study. Throughout his career, he made
significant and immediate contributions to his profession with his keen intellect and
intense commitment to doing the best possible social science research. His leadership
of the Michigan Retirement Research Center reflected his commitment to giving public
policy a firm basis in social science.
Before joining the University of Michigan in 1998, Professor Lillard spent 20 years
with RAND in Santa Monica, California, where he held a variety of positions. As the
founding director of RAND's Center for the Study of Aging, he established one of the
leading research programs on aging in the world. While at RAND, he received a
National Institute of Aging MERIT Award, the most prestigious award given by
National Institutes of Health.
Professor Lillard was well known in the fields of economics and demography as an
incredibly energetic researcher who was always eager to expand into new fields. He
was also a great collaborator who was committed to interdisciplinary research.
Professor Lillard was painstakingly careful with data and was an extraordinarily
competent analyst and researcher.
As we mourn the loss of this valued colleague, our condolences go to his daughter
Jennifer of Los Angeles, California; his father Lee A. Lillard II of Granbury, Texas; and
his grandmother Lucille Lillard of Arlington, Texas.
Degrees. Final degree lists for the December 2000 commencement and changes to
previously approved degree lists were submitted for approval. Copies of all of the


229




February Meeting, 2001


degree lists are on file in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the
University.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Amendment of Existing Lease between the University of Michigan M-Care and
First Properties Associates
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents about amendment of an
existing lease for property located at 2301 Commonwealth in Ann Arbor, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that pursuant to Regents'
policies, follow-on investments of $30.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio have been
made in Worldview Technology Partners IV, L.P. and Madison Dearborn Capital Partners
IV, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President informed the Regents that a follow-on investment of $20.0
million from the Long Term Portfolio has been made in Avanti Strategic Land Investors
IV, L.P.
International Equity Management
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of Capital Guardian Trust as an investment manager
for international equities. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the amount of the
investment would be $250 million in non-U.S. market-traded stocks.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's Projects
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously authorized an increase of up to $4.7 million in the amount outstanding under
the commercial paper supported by a pledge of General Revenues, to finance part of the
University's share of the Forest Avenue Parking Structure.
Charitable Gift Annuities
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of Mellon Private Asset Management (MPAM) as
fixed income investment manager of the University's Gift Annuity Program.
G. G. Brown Building Boiler Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the G. G. Brown Building Boiler Replacement Project as described
in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a
construction contract provided that bids are within the approved budget.


230




February Meeting, 2001


Walgreen Drama Center
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of SmithGroup, Inc. as the architect of record, and
Michael Wilford Architects, Limited to lead the design of the building for the Walgreen
Drama Center project.
Institute of Science and Technology (IST) High Bay Building Addition
Executive Vice President Kasdin reviewed the history of this project, for which bids
have come in higher than the estimates. Regent Maynard moved approval of the revised
budget of $12,600,000 for the IST High Bay Building Addition and award of a
construction contract to DeMaria Building Co., Inc. He noted that his staff has concluded
that the bid discrepancy problem is related to the estimates provided by the outside
estimator and communication between the estimator and the architect. Regent Taylor
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Women's Gymnastics Facility
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced David W. Osler, who gave an overview
of the schematic design of the Women's Gymnastics facility. He noted that the facility is a
pre-engineered building to which alterations are being made to soften it and reflect its use.
The presentation included descriptions of interior and exterior aspects of the building. It
was pointed out that funding for this building has been provided by a pledged, anonymous
donation.
Regent Horning moved approval of the schematic design for the Women's
Gymnastic Facility. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Martha Cook Residence Hall Fire Alarm System
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement of the Martha Cook Residence Hall fire alarm system,
as described in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Pierpont Commons Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the design of the new entry for the Pierpont Commons Renovation
Project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Amendment of a Purchasing Contract with Vaassen Sheep Farm
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved amendment of a purchasing contract with Vaassen Sheep Farm.
Because the co-owner of Vaassen Sheep Farm, Sharon Vaassen, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Contract.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its UMHS
Orthopaedic Research Laboratories, and Vaassen Sheep Farm.


231




February Meeting, 2001


2.   The service to be provided is the boarding of sheep for the purposes of research study,
with the original dollar amount of $5,000.00 to be increased to a total amount of
$9,200.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Sharon Vaassen, a University of
Michigan employee, is the co-owner of Vaassen Sheep Farm.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm. Because the owner
of Valley View Farm, Douglas Doop, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Greenfield
Vascular Research Lab, and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is the boarding and selling of sheep for the purposes of
medical research, with the service to be provided for the period beginning November 1,
2000 and ending October 31, 2003, for a total dollar amount of $7,500.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
Purchasing Contract with Elaine S. Wilson, Artist
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Elaine S. Wilson for purchase of a piece
of artwork. Because Ms. Wilson is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office of
the President, and Elaine S. Wilson
2.   The service to be provided is artwork at a cost of $9,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Elaine S. Wilson, a University of
Michigan employee, is the creator and owner of the artwork.
Establishment of Departments within the Medical School
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that three sections within the Department of
Surgery had matured into independent disciplines at Michigan and around the country, so
they are now seeking independent departmental status.
Establishment of Department of Neurosurgery
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Department of Neurosurgery.
Establishment of Department of Orthopaedic Surgery
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery.
Establishment of Department of Urology
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Department of Urology.


232




February Meeting, 2001


Establishment of a "Master of Science in Environmental Science" Degree Program
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a "Master of Science in Environmental Science"
degree program to be offered by the Department of Natural Sciences, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Code of Conduct for University of Michigan Licensees
An item for information was submitted to the Regents by President Bollinger
describing the recently issued new Code of Conduct for University of Michigan Licensees.
The Code of Conduct is based on the recommendations of the Standing Committee on
Labor Standards and Human Rights that had been established in September 2000.
Code of Conduct for University of Michigan Licensees
Forced Labor. Licensees shall not use (or purchase materials that are produced using) any form
of forced labor, whether in the form of prison labor, indentured labor, bonded labor, or
otherwise.
Child Labor. Licensees shall not employ any person at an age younger than 15 (or 14, where,
consistent with International Labor Organization practices for developing countries, the law of
the country of manufacture allows such exception.) Where the age for completing compulsory
education is higher than the standard for the minimum age of employment stated above, the
higher age for completing compulsory education shall apply to this section. Licensees agree to
consult with governmental, human rights, and non-governmental organizations, and to take
reasonable steps to minimize the negative impact on children released from employment as a
result of implementation or enforcement of the Code.
Harassment or Abuse. Every employee shall be treated with dignity and respect. No employee
shall be subject to any physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or abuse. Licensees
will not use or tolerate any form of corporal punishment.
Nondiscrimination. No person shall be subject to any discrimination in employment, including
hiring, salary, benefits, advancement, discipline, termination or retirement, on the basis of
gender, race, marital status, reproductive or familial situation, religion, age, disability, sexual
orientation, nationality, political opinion, or social or ethnic origin.
Health and Safety. Licensees shall provide a safe and healthy working environment to prevent
accidents and injury to health, including reproductive health, arising out of, linked with, or
occurring in the course of work or as a result of the operation of Licensee facilities.
Women's Rights. Women's rights are included in the previous sections of this Code of Conduct.
Without restricting the generality of the foregoing and for purposes of greater clarity and
specificity, licensees shall abide by the following conditions:
*   Female workers shall have the same work opportunities as men, without arbitrary
restriction on the types of jobs or special limits on hours of work;
*   Licensees shall not use criteria related to marital or reproductive status (for example,
pregnancy tests, the use of contraception, fertility status) as conditions of employment;
*   New mothers shall be entitled to leaves of absence (with the right to return to work) for
childbirth and recovery from childbirth.
Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining. Licensees shall recognize and respect the
right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. No employee shall be
subject to harassment, intimidation or retaliation for her/his efforts to freely associate or bargain


233




February Meeting, 2001


collectively. Licensees shall allow union organizers access to employees. Licensees shall
recognize the union of the employee's choice.
Hours of Work and Overtime. Licensees shall comply with applicable laws and industry
standards on working hours. In any event, personnel shall not, on a regular basis, be required to
work in excess of 48 hours per week and shall be provided with at least one day off in every
seven-day period. Mandatory overtime shall be limited to extraordinary and short-term business
circumstances and the policy concerning mandatory overtime shall be explained to employees
before they are hired. Regular working hours plus mandatory overtime shall not exceed 60 hours
per week. All overtime shall be remunerated at an appropriate premium rate.
Compensation. Licensees recognize that wages are the principal means of meeting the basic
needs of employees and their families, and therefore commit themselves to a wage goal that
enables employees to satisfy these needs. Licensees shall ensure that wages and benefits for a
standard working week meet at least legal minimum standards and industry averages, whichever
is greater, and that net compensation is at least sufficient to meet the worker's basic needs.
Compensation standards will be adjusted periodically based on experience and increased
knowledge concerning local labor markets and living conditions.
In addition, I am adopting on behalf of the University, the committee's recommendations
regarding alternative methods for compliance for a two-year trial period. The Committee has
recommended that companies be deemed in compliance if they follow three other codes, with
some additional conditions for those licensees complying with the codes promulgated by the
Collegiate Licensing Company (CLC) and the Fair Labor Association (FLA).
At the end of the two-year trial period (or before that, if significant problems are identified), the
effects of these compliance guidelines related to other codes will be assessed and
recommendations will be made on future arrangements.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:30 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for March 15, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


234




MARCH MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 15, 2001
The Regents convened at 9:10 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, and White.
Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President
Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regents Newman and Taylor were absent.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He noted that the campus is in the
midst of a three-week visit by the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) and that the level of
excitement and energy this has generated is unprecedented. He said the company would
be returning to campus in 2003 and 2005, events that both parties are eagerly anticipating.
He described some of the events that have been held in conjunction with the RSC
residency, including performances attended by local school children and by potential UM
students.
Regent McGowan observed that the RSC has been generous in its praise of both
the University and the University Musical Society regarding all aspects of the residency.
She also pointed out that the provost's office and other University offices have
purchased tickets that allow University students who might not otherwise have had the
opportunity to attend the performances, resulting in an audience that reflects a
cross-section of the University and the broader community.
President Bollinger observed that the Life Sciences Institute would be holding a
kickoff celebration on April 11. He called attention to a number of other recent and
upcoming events and achievements and noted that Provost Nancy Cantor would be
receiving an achievement award from the Anti-Defamation League. He also reported on
the deaths of UM alumnus Claude Shannon, known as the father of information theory,
and former faculty member Michel Oksenberg. Vice President Ulaby commented that a
bust of Claude Shannon is going to be placed at the University of Michigan and a
celebration is being planned in conjunction with that event.
Regent Deitch reported on the death of Theodore Sachs, a 1951 graduate of the
University of Michigan Law School, who Regent Deitch described as a distinguished
lawyer, brilliant scholar, and the embodiment of what the University of Michigan is
about.
Regent Deitch also noted that President Bollinger had been prominently featured in
the local and national press in recent weeks. He said that "we are thrilled to work with
you," and "we all look forward to working with you and your colleagues to build even
more greatness at this university in the years to come."  Regent Maynard also


235




March Meeting, 2001


commented that she is delighted that President Bollinger and Mrs. Bollinger would be
staying in Ann Arbor.
Stadium Revenue Plan
President Bollinger called on Athletic Director Bill Martin.
Mr. Martin enumerated the financial challenges facing the Athletic Department,
which include significant growth of the program over time; 100% support of student
scholarship costs; declining revenues from licensed products; that all 25 teams are
supported primarily by revenues from football, ice hockey, and men's basketball; and
costs to remain competitive continue to grow. To ensure a strong future, the Athletic
Department is examining additional ways to cut costs and wisely utilize existing
resources, developing a long-term strategic plan that includes facilities needs and means
for funding them, implementing a significant fundraising program, evaluating additional
revenue opportunities, and increasing football ticket prices for Fall 2001.
Mr. Martin reported that before deciding on a new football ticket pricing program,
the department performed a thorough analysis of revenues, expenditures, and trends,
both at Michigan and at other programs; held 15 focus groups of alumni, fans, and
donors; and enlisted a professional firm to conduct a "fan experience survey" of 3,000
season ticket holders which had a highly unusual 65% response rate. He reviewed the
results of the survey and noted that it revealed a high level of understanding about the
department's financial status.
Mr. Martin announced that for the 2001 season a tiered seating model would be
implemented with four different price levels based on seat location. Mandatory seat
donations would not be implemented at this time, and there would be no forced
reseating at the stadium based on the level of donations. The discount for faculty and
staff will be 10%, and student tickets for 2001 will be 55% lower than the lowest priced
seats. He displayed a diagram showing the locations of the four stadium seating levels
and announced the pricing schedule, which also includes a "premium" game with a
higher single ticket price. For 2001 the premium game will be Ohio State University.
Mr. Martin reported that ticket prices will be reviewed and adjusted annually. He
pointed out that the availability of the best seats at both Ohio State and Pennsylvania
State universities is based on donation history, so that the actual cost of the tickets per
game at these institutions is far greater than the face value.
Mr. Martin noted that the new ticket pricing plan will yield $5 million in additional
revenue and the Nike contract will result in $2.2 million in revenue for 2001. However
to meet continuing needs for facility renovation and renewal and new construction and
to enhance the endowment, additional revenue options will be explored such as stadium
advertising, enclosed seating, and voluntary seat donation incentives. In addition, major
fundraising initiatives will be launched.
The meeting then continued with consideration of the Consent Agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the meeting of February
15, 2001.


236




March Meeting, 2001


Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment and
Plant Extension. With respect to the Investment Report, he reported that compared to
its benchmarks, the University's portfolio is doing well, although it will be a difficult
period in terms of real wealth accumulation.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established for February
2001.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn noted
that the health system is in good shape financially and that major initiatives are on track.
Student Affairs. There was no report from the Division of Student Affairs.
UM-Dearborn. There was no report from the Dearborn Campus.
UM-Flint. There was no further report from the Flint Campus.
Discussions   between    the   University   of   Michigan     Department    of
Transportation and the Ann Arbor Transportation Authority (AATA). Executive
Vice President Kasdin observed that as followup to concerns raised at the last meeting,
meetings have been set up with a number of student groups and open meetings have
been scheduled for staff and students on this topic. He said that he welcomes an
opportunity to hear and to respond to any and all concerns surrounding this issue. He
also reported that AFSCME has requested and received the background information
about this proposal and that his staff would like to meet with them as well. He said he
would report back next month on the results of all of these discussions.
Regent Deitch requested that the Regents receive a summary of the findings prior
to the next meeting. Regent Deitch apologized to Executive Vice President Kasdin for
any sharpness in tone that may have been conveyed by his comments on this issue at the
previous meeting.
Voluntary Support.     Vice President Feagin submitted Reports of Voluntary
Support for February 2001.
Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Irvine, California
for research in the Medical School............................................. $  24,525
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturer's Inc., Washington, DC
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute.................. 575,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 94,141
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy........................................ 27,000
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School............................................... 25,000
Atwater Foundation, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........ 15,000
David Barsky, Wyandotte
2,000 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the J. M. Laberge Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......................... 41,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................................60,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
540 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for research in the Medical School............................................... 25,010


237




March Meeting, 2001


Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning................................................ 23,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
170 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music,
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for Camp Michigania and the University Musical Society............................. 10,774
BP Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 17,950
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 15,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................ 20,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy...................... 82,500
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for the Janet E. and William C. Cassebaum Fund and the Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Musical Society............................................... 33,490
Celsus Laboratories, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship............................................ 10,000
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Sally Michelson Davidson Professorship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts........................................................  100,000
John Deere Construction Equipment Company, Moline, Illinois
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 10,000
Dell Computer Company, Round Rock, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering...... 109,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering, Detroit
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering....... 84,660
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering,
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  46,575
Detroit Entertainment, L.L.C., Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........ 10,000
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for the Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship.............................. 14,000
Joyce D. Dick Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  14,617
Dickinson, Wright PLLC Counsellors at Law, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School.................... 10,000
Domino's Pizza, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Art and Design and Business Administration............... 10,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 15,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  15,285
Max and Victoria Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  22,500
James S. Duesenberry, Belmont, Massachusetts
for the James S. and Margaret T. Duesenberry Gift Annuity Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 20,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester. New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 12,132
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  166,550
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering.......................... 60,000
Ford Motor Company-Design, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 10,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  39,000
Freightliner Corporation, Portland, Oregon
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 15,000


238




March Meeting, 2001


General Motors Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration and
for facilities support, the Minority Engineering Program and the General Motors
Foundation Computer Aided Engineering Network Fund in the College of Engineering.... 434,000
Gerber Foundation, Fremont
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 197,323
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 10,000
Guilford Pharmaceutical, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...............................................  12,000
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
for the David and Marion Handleman Academic Fund in the Medical School........... 100,000
Verl J. Hawks Trust
for facilities support in the College of Engineering................................ 400,000
Sidney M. Hiller Living Trust
for support in the Medical School................................................ 50,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the Medical School................................................ 34,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 50,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering, and for support at
the University  of M ichigan-Flint................................................. 25,300
Orpha Irwin Trust
for the Orpha L. Irwin Scholarship and the KEC Building Development Fund in
the Medical School and for the Alumni Association............................... 1,014,233
Itochu International, Inc., New York, New York
for the Itochu MBA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration................ 10,000
ITU Ventures LLC, Beverly Hills, California
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.............................. 12,000
JDW, II Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Art Acquisition Fund in the School of Business Administration.................. 50,000
Helen V. Kew Trust
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 15,822
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 35,000
John R. Koza, Los Altos, California
9,000 shares of Talarian Corporation common stock
for support in the Center for the Study of Complex Systems........................... 40,500
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the Medical School........... 25,000
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 26,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 471,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for the Manoogian Professorship in Modern Armenian History and
the Marie Manoogian Professorship in Armenian Language and Literature in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 75,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  33,325
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the University Musical Society and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  17,800
Mazda Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Hooker, Cook and Devos Endowment in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public  Policy...............................................................  100,000
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  11,571
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................. 11,000
Milken Family Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Music............................ 10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering and
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..................... 12,500


239




March Meeting, 2001


Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research and other support in the Schools of Information and Public Health.......... 188,361
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 181,999
Nathan Family Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 12,500
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Professorship in the Medical School......................... 150,000
Owner Operator Services, Inc., Grain Valley, Missouri
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 10,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School............................................... 68,490
Frederick J. Peterson Estate
1,133 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for support in the Medical School................................................ 31,633
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School............................................ 650,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the University Musical Society............................................... 50,000
Thomas S. Porter, Ann Arbor
4,000 shares of Commerce One, Inc., common stock
for the Innovation Initiative Endowment in the School of Business Administration......... 97,250
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  30,000
Jeffrey L. Raney, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
2,000 shares of GMP Companies, Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 68,000
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  101,190
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for economics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender....................... 79,035
G. D. Searle Charitable Trust
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 196,400
Jeffrey and Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Jeffrey and Susan Kahn Stem Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  12,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor Scholarship........................ 12,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration................ 25,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank S. Moran Funds in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine..... 5,000
Jing Wang, Durham, North Carolina
for the Candy R. Wei International Travel Endowment in the School of Art and Design..... 10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  70,000
Betty J. Williams Trust
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorships in the College of Engineering and
the  M edical School..........................................................  200,000
Wolverine Temporaries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  20,000
Ronald J. Woods Charitable Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
William B. Becker, Huntington Woods
a collection of photographs for the Clements Library
Irving Feller, Chelsea
a motion picture camera and related accessories for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Norman Mousseau, St. Clair Shores
photographic, motion picture and sound recording equipment, and other related items for the
Program in Film and Video Studies
Northwest Airlines, Detroit
airfare travel tickets for the University of Michigan-Dearborn


240




March Meeting, 2001


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Lawrence I. Berkove, Southfield
Vincent D. Brown, Mt. Pleasant
Betsy Cushman, Dearborn
Jennifer Gates, Ann Arbor
Mark Gawecki, Brighton
John Humphrey, Portsmouth, Rhode Island
Robert G. Kelly, Plymouth
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Leslie J. Thornton II, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Gordon, David, M.D., Professor of Pathology and Assistant Dean for Diversity and Career Development,
Medical School, March 16, 2001
Lee, Kyung-Dall, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Science,
College of Pharmacy, April 1, 2001
Mukherji, Suresh K., M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, Medical School, April 1, 2001
Saltiel, Alan R., Ph.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, March 16, 2001
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on March 16, 2001
Travagli, R. Alberto, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of
Physiology, Medical School
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Jeffrey Alan, Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Richard Carl Jelinek Professor in
Health Services Management and Policy, Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure,
School of Public Health, and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, also appointed Acting Dean,
School of Public Health, April 1-October 31, 2001
Connell, Cathleen M., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health,
February 1, 2001-January 31, 2003
Mastrangelo, Carlos H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Wehe, David K., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering, also appointed Director, Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, Office of the
Vice President for Research, January 1, 2001-December 21, 2003


241




March Meeting, 2001


ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Professorships
Bredt Family Professorship in Engineering, College of Engineering, April 1, 2001
Collegiate Professorship in Basic Radiological Sciences, Medical School, March 16, 2001
Morris Wellman Faculty Development Professorship in Computer Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, April 1, 2001
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Eliav, Yaron Z., Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Goldberg, Edward, George W. Morley Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, March 16, 2001-March 15, 2006
Levinson, Julian A., Samuel Shetzer Endowed Professor of Jewish American Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Other Transactions
Rienstra, Lieutenant Colonel Steven E., Chief, Army Officer Education Program, February 21, 2001
Zearfoss, Sarah C., Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer, Law School, March 1, 2001-February 28, 2003
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Wehe, David K., January 1, 2001-December 31, 2003, vice John C. Lee, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Perlove, Shelley K., February 1, 2001-August 31, 2002, vice Jonathan Smith, unable to complete term
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Epstein, Karen A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2001
Makoni, Sinfree, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Mitchell, Eugene O., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, February 1-August 31, 2001
Shapiro, Howard I., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School,
January 15, 2001-August 31, 2002
Wahlstrom, Darryl A., M.S., Lecturer I in Psychology and Lecturer I in English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Binno, Shereen, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
Feburary 5, 2001-February 4, 2002
Hogikyan, Robert V., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Vyas, Sapna, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2003


242




March Meeting, 2001


CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on March 15, 2001
Wheeler, Margaret T., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer I in
Classical Studies and Lecturer II in Comparative Literature)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Jones, Lawrence W., Professor Emeritus of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
Koenen, Ludwig, Herbert C. Youtie Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Papyrology and
Professor Emeritus of Papyrology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Sarri, Rosemary A., Professor Emerita of Social Work, School of Social Work, July 1, 2000-March 31, 2002
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Turcotte, Jeremiah G., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Barbara A., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Birdsall, William C., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement
furlough, January 1-December 31, 2001
Burke, David T., Associate Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2001
Davies, Peter H., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Flint, Andrew, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2001
Fulton, Alice, Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Gomez Hassan, Diana M., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 19, 2000-January 24, 2001
Kucich, John Richard, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and William Davidson Professor of Business Administration and Professor of Business
Administration, without tenure, School of Business, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Ludomirsky, Achiau, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, personal leave, February 1-February 28, 2001
Mooney, David J., Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry and Associate
Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Parfitt, Bruce D., Assistant Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, extended sick
leave, January 22-April 30, 2001
Peyser, Patricia A., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Rea, David K., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Root, Terry L., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, research leave, January 1-December 31, 2001
Rosen, Lois M., Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, extended sick
leave, January 1-February 4, 2001


243




March Meeting, 2001


Toman, Jindrich, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Weiner, Allan, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, extended
sick leave, March 12-June 20, 2001
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Damour, Lisa K., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
Huang, Milton P., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, February 2, 2001
Lee, Jason H., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Nobunaga, Austin I., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, January 31, 2001
Possert, Peter W., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, March 19, 2001
Retired
Dahlke, Richard M., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2001
Davis, Wayne K., Professor of Medical Education, with tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2001
Term Completed
Armendariz, Armando A., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Belorousski, Pavel, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
March 12, 2001
Gordon, Jesse E., Professor Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Professor Emeritus of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, February 28, 2001
Michigan Student Assembly.        MSA president Hideki Tsutsumi stated that he
would be addressing the proposed agreement with the Ann Arbor Transportation
Authority. He noted that MSA had passed unanimously a resolution opposing the
outsourcing of major parts of the University bus service, and he introduced Eric Roder,
sponsor of the resolution and a student in the College of Engineering. Mr. Roder
commented that he has not come across one person in the College of Engineering who is
in favor of this proposal, and that one of the major causes for concern is the lack of
communication to students. He read the unanimous resolution from MSA, titled "A
Resolution Opposing Outsourcing of Major Parts of the University Bus Service to the Ann
Arbor Transportation Authority" and commented further on the reasons for student
opposition to the proposal.
Retirement Memoirs.        Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption one
retirement memoir.
Wayne K. Davis, Ph.D., professor of medical education in the Medical School,
will retire from active faculty status on March 31, 2001.
A native of Ohio, Professor Davis received his B.A. degree (1967) from Central
Bible College and his M.A. (1969) and Ph.D. (1971) degrees from the University of
Michigan. He joined the faculty in 1971 as a research scientist and lecturer in the
School of Education. In 1973, he was named assistant professor in the Department of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education in the Medical School
(renamed Department of Medical Education in 1995). He was promoted to associate
professor in 1977 and professor in 1982 and was associate professor in the School of
Nursing from 1973-95.
Within the Department of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, Professor Davis served as associate chair from 1982-97 and as assistant


244




March Meeting, 2001


director, then director, of the Office of Educational Resources and Research (1973-97).
From 1977-97, he was director of the Educational Development and Evaluation
Resources Core of the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center. Within the
Medical School, Professor Davis served as assistant dean for curriculum (1982-87) and
assistant dean (1989-91) and then associate dean (1991-97) for medical education. As
associate dean, he directed the development, implementation, and evaluation of a new
Medical School curriculum and consulted with other U.S. medical schools undergoing
curricular revisions.
Professor Davis authored or co-authored numerous journal articles, books,
chapters, and other publications. He served on the editorial boards of four medical
education journals and was associate editor of Academic Medicine. He was widely
recognized for his contributions in the areas of diabetes and arthritis education, the
behavioral and psycho-social aspects of diabetes care, and medical school curricular
development and evaluation.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator for his dedicated
service by naming Wayne K. Davis professor emeritus of medical education.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco reported the death of William R. Mancini,
Ph.D., assistant professor of pharmacology and member of the Upjohn Center for
Clinical Pharmacology.
William R. Mancini, Ph.D., assistant professor of pharmacology and member of
the Upjohn Center for Clinical Pharmacology, died February 23, 2001, after an extended
illness. Born on March 1, 1948, in Pawtucket, Rhode Island, Professor Mancini grew
up in southeastern Massachusetts. He served in the U.S. Navy, including a tour of duty
as a medic in Vietnam and then received his B.A. degree, magna cum laude, from North
Adams State College in Massachusetts. He earned his Ph.D. degree in pharmacology in
1980 from State University of New York at Buffalo, while working on cancer drug
research at Roswell Park Memorial Institute. Professor Mancini began his professional
career as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Pharmacology at Yale Medical
School. He subsequently joined the research faculty at Yale and then moved to the
Department of Pharmacology at the University of Michigan in 1984.
Professor Mancini's primary interest was in understanding how drugs could be
used to kill cancer cells more effectively. For many years, he focused on brain tumor
research and his activities were important in bringing several large grants for brain
tumor research to the Medical Center. His research was supported by multiple grants,
mostly from the National Institutes of Health.
Professor Mancini lectured to graduate, medical, pharmacy, and nursing students
on the subjects of cancer chemotherapy, carcinogenesis, and antimicrobial therapy. For
almost 15 years, he co-directed the pharmacology graduate student seminar course
where he mentored over 100 graduate students in presenting the results of their research.
He served on 15 doctoral committees and was primary mentor for 2 doctoral students.
Professor Mancini was a member of the University of Michigan Cancer Center, the
Program in Cancer Pharmacology, the Neuro-Oncology Program, and the Drug
Development Program.
All of his colleagues were impressed with how Professor Mancini dealt with the
severe, chronic, and progressive illness which started to take his breath away some 13
years ago. They admired how he continued his full-time research and teaching


245




March Meeting, 2001


schedule, his demeanor never betraying the full extent of his illness. He was a good
listener, who chose his few words wisely, and his opinions were respected by all.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished faculty member, we extend our
condolences to his wife, JoAnne Barron; his two daughters Caitlyn, 14, and Laurynn,
11; his brothers Richard and Frank; and his sister Dede.
Degrees.   President Bollinger submitted for approval a recommendation that
honorary degrees be awarded to the following individuals: William M. Davidson
(Doctor of Laws); The Honorable Ruth Bader Ginsburg (Doctor of Laws); William Ivey
(Doctor of Humane Letters); Adam Michnik (Doctor of Laws); Robert Pinsky (Doctor
of Humane Letters); and Marshall Sahlins (Doctor of Humane Letters).
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Financial Statements and Reports to
OMB Circular A-133 for the year ended June 30, 2000. He announced that he and Vice
President Ulaby have formed a committee to be chaired by Marvin Parnes, associate vice
president for research, and Tim Slottow, associate vice president for finance, to review the
entire research process at the University to ensure that the University is positioned to
provide the best possible support for faculty research endeavors.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board
in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the Year
Ended June 30, 2000
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Supplemental Information to the
Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of
the University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 2000.
Funds Functioning as Endowment
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained that this is a request for confirmation by
the Regents of the authority of the executive vice president and chief financial officer to
establish funds functioning as endowment (quasi-endowment funds) and to treat these as
endowment funds for the purposes of investment and administration.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution:
RESOLUTION
RESOLVED, that the authority of the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer to establish certain funds of the University as funds functioning as
endowment is hereby ratified and confirmed. In accordance with the policies of the
Regents, such funds shall be invested as long-term capital in a diversified portfolio
intended to provide both investment returns and a hedge against inflation. Designations
of funds as funds functioning as endowment may be permanent or for a term of years,
generally not less than five, subject in either case to the ability of the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer to expend principal of the funds in exigent
circumstance resulting from unanticipated reductions in revenues or increases in


246




March Meeting, 2001


expenses, as shall be determined by the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer.
RESOLVED, that except as provided above, expenditures from funds
functioning as endowment shall be made in accordance with the endowment expenditure
policies from time to time adopted by the Regents, including any policies which may
apply to any particular class of endowment funds.
RESOLVED, that it is the intention of the Regents that funds functioning as
endowment are to be treated as part of the University's "endowment funds," for
purposes of Article IX, Section 19 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended,
and for purposes of the Uniform Management of Institutional Funds Act, subject to the
right to expend principal as set forth above.
RESOLVED, that funds functioning as endowment shall be administered with
other endowment funds of the University under the auspices and authority of the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Absolute Return Investments (First Quadrant Premier Fund, Ltd.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved First Quadrant Premier Fund, Ltd. with initial funding of $45
million.
Absolute Return Investments (Satellite Overseas Fund, Ltd.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved Satellite Overseas Fund, Ltd. with initial funding of $45 million.
Currency Overlay Manager (Bridgewater Associates)
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained the concept of currency overlay
management. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved Bridgewater Associates as a currency overlay manager.
Currency Overlay Manager (Lee Overlay Partners)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved Lee Overlay Partners as a currency overlay manager.
Northwood IV Exterior Siding Repair and Stain
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the Northwood IV Exterior Siding Repair and Stain Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Chemistry Building Renovations for Biophysics Research Division
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained that the reason laboratory renovation
projects are more expensive than others is that these renovation projects also are used as
opportunities to update the buildings' infrastructure. On a motion by Regent Brandon,
seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Chemistry
Building Renovations for Biophysics Research Division Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.


247




March Meeting, 2001


Dana Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that in December the Regents had approved
re-bidding the Dana Building Renovation Project. Since then, a number of bids were
received significantly below the proposed budget.
Women's Gymnastics Facility
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Women's Gymnastics Facility Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding the construction contract, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (NAME) Building Entrance Plaza
Paving and Landscaping
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (NAME) Building
Entrance Plaza Paving and Landscaping Project as described and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) General Clinical Research Center
(GCRC) Expansion
Executive Vice President Omenn introduced John Wiley, director of the General
Clinical Research Center, and Dorene Markel, administrator of GCRC. He noted that the
GCRC is being funded by a five-year grant of $33.6 million from the National Institutes of
Health. The purpose of this project is to renovate space to be used for clinical research
studies to be funded by this project; 50% of the cost of the project will be funded by the
NIH grant. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHS General Clinical Research Center Expansion Project as
described, and authorized issuing the project of bids and awarding a construction contract,
providing that bids are within the approved budget of $1,137,824.
University of Michigan-Dearborn University Mall Renovation
Chancellor Little noted that renovation of the University Mall would result in a
fully-dedicated, highly-effective student center on the Dearborn Campus. He introduced
Kenneth Neumann of Neumann/Smith & Associates.
Mr. Neumann gave an illustrated presentation about the planned renovation,
including a site-plan, a floor plan, and exterior views. Following the presentation,
Regent Maynard moved approval of the schematic design for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn University Mall Renovation Project as presented and an increase in
the project budget to $13,038,000. Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Fieldhouse Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised budget for the UM-Dearborn Fieldhouse Renovation


248




March Meeting, 2001


Project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract,
providing that bids are within the $3,900,000 approved budget.
Payment for Services of Global Design
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved processing of payment for services provided by Global Design.
Because a co-owner of Global Design, Brian Porter, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Latin
American and Caribbean Studies Department, and Global Design.
2.   The service provided was graphic design of brochures, in November 2000, at a total
cost of $695.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Brian Porter, a University of Michigan
employee, is co-owner of Global Design.
Purchasing Contract with Results Based Leadership Group, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a contract with Results Based Leadership Group, Inc. Because
David Ulrich is both a University employee and a shareholder in the company, this
contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School of
Business Administration's Executive Education Center, and Results Based Leadership
Group, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is a series of seminars to be conducted between August,
2000 through June 2001, at a total cost of $116,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that David Ulrich, a University of Michigan
employee, is a shareholder and co-author of work on which the seminar is based.
Reorganization of the Department of Biology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved reorganization of the Department of Biology into two departments
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts: the Department of Molecular, Cellular,
and Developmental Biology, and the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
Approval of Academic Calendars for the UM-Flint Campus for 2003-2004 and
2004-2005
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed academic calendars for the UM-Flint campus for
2003-2004 and 2004-2005.
Motion to Meet in Nonformal Session
Regent Horning moved that this formal session of the Regents be adjourned and a
non-formal session begun for the purpose of considering a personnel evaluation. The
meeting continued in nonformal session from 10:25 a.m. until 11:00 a.m.


249




March Meeting, 2001


Public Comments
The Regents reconvened in formal session at 11:00 a.m. and heard comments from
the following individuals on the topics indicated: Gary S. Hann, alumnus, on University
of Michigan duplicity; Julie A. Schumaker, student, on a proposed exhibit of plastinated
bodies; Cybele Blood, staff, on the utility of public hearings and bylaws on outsourcing;
Matthew Rudnick, student, Warren Jenkins, AFSCME bargaining chair, and Cedric De
Leon, president of the Graduate Employees Organization (GEO), on AATA/UM bus
routes and outsourcing; Matthew Hannah and Peter Romer-Friedman, students and
members of SOLE, on the Code of Conduct; and Michael Simon, student, on the
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:45 a.m. The
next meeting will be held April 12, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


250




APRIL MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 12, 2001
The Regents convened at 9:45 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President
Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President
Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch was absent.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He announced that Sanford R.
("Sandy") Robertson has agreed to serve as co-chair of the University's upcoming capital
campaign, along with Richard Rogel. President Bollinger noted that Mr. Robertson, as a
leader of the campaign, has also pledged to make a significant gift. President Bollinger
pointed out that Mr. Robertson has stated that he wants to show his support for the values
of the University of Michigan, especially its commitment to the highest intellectual quality
and to community and diversity. President Bollinger said he would convey to Mr.
Robertson the "complete thanks and total enthusiasm" of the Board.
National Survey of Student Engagement
President Bollinger called on Provost Cantor to review the results of the National
Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE).
Provost Cantor distributed copies of the NSSE 2000 Report, "National
Benchmarks of Effective Educational Practice." She noted it compares the experience of
undergraduate students at the University of Michigan with that of students nationwide,
including those at 46 other, similar "doctoral-extensive" institutions. She stated that
this survey, which will be done annually, creates a set of benchmarks to compare
institutions on how well they engage their students, and it uses as a definition of
learning the extent of engagement between the individual student and the institution.
The benchmarks measured are: level of academic challenge, opportunities for active and
collaborative learning, student interaction with faculty members, enriching educational
experiences, and a supportive campus environment.
Provost Cantor described a number of surveys conducted recently, including
surveys of admitted first-year students (all admits and enrolling admits only); enrolled
students (first year students and graduating seniors); and alumni (8 months
post-graduation and 6 years post graduation). Thus, the data from these surveys span
the whole range of experiences at the University of Michigan.
Provost Cantor observed that on the NSSE the University ranks extremely well in
the areas of "level of academic challenge" (97th percentile for first-year students and
86th percentile for seniors) and "active and collaborative learning" (96th percentile for
first year students and 54th percentile for senior year students). The one benchmark that


251




April Meeting, 2001


the Provost noted needs improvement is "student interaction with faculty members
(outside of the formal classroom)."
On the benchmark of "enriching educational experiences," Provost Cantor noted
that the University of Michigan is in the 89th percentile among peer institutions for both
first-year and senior students, and she reviewed the scores for a number of measures of
this benchmark.  Regarding the benchmark of "creating a supportive campus
environment," Provost Cantor reported that the University ranks in the 75th percentile
for first-year students and in the 62nd percentile for senior year students.  She
emphasized that this finding points to the need for providing accommodations to allow
more upper class students to live on campus.
Provost Cantor summarized the findings by noting that the University of Michigan
is challenging and enriching relative to peer institutions. The differences between
perceptions of first-year and senior students across the benchmarks, she noted, points to
a need to more closely examine the senior year experience at the University. Relative to
students at peer institutions, seniors at Michigan are more likely to report that they
would attend the same institution again. The data also indicate that 91% of enrolling
first-year students intend to obtain an advanced degree, and the University of Michigan
is in the 90th percentile of alumni who actually do pursue advanced degrees. In
addition, a high percentage of recent alumni are very or somewhat satisfied with their
first job after graduation.
In conclusion, Provost Cantor observed that the University of Michigan is an
"incredibly challenging" institution, which students enter with very high aspirations.
The University provides students with a very enriching environment, but it needs to
provide more opportunities for increasing their engagement with faculty on a one-one
basis outside of the classroom. New and reconfigured existing residence halls, along
with the new undergraduate life sciences facility, should help fulfill this objective.
Overall, she concluded, the surveys indicate that the University provides an educational
experience that should be considered a source of pride for all involved.
President Bollinger commented that the recommendations of the Commission on
Undergraduate Education, chaired by Provost Cantor, as well as recent initiatives in
developing more living/learning communities and enhanced residence halls, will also be
helpful in meeting the objectives outlined by Provost Cantor.
The meeting then continued with consideration of the Consent Agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the meeting of March 15,
2001.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment,
Plant Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects Established for March 2001.
He noted that research expenditures to date for 2001 are 6% higher than for the same
period last year.


252




April Meeting, 2001


University of Michigan Health System.        Executive Vice President Omenn
announced that a contract has been signed with the Michigan Nurses Association which
will be effective through June 2004. He observed that the national and regional
shortage of nurses in the face of an extremely high demand makes this a very difficult
time for nursing staffing. This increases the importance of finding ways to more
efficiently utilize nursing staff time and for management and nursing staff to work
together on long-term problem solving.
Executive Vice President Omenn also noted that the Health System budget remains
on track, although the increasing numbers of patients enrolled in managed care
contracts, as opposed to the fee-for-service type of insurance, is becoming increasingly
challenging from a budget perspective. This is also the case for the varying levels of
federal government payments made for medical education based on whether it is
provided on an inpatient or outpatient basis.
Student Affairs. Vice President Harper introduced newly-elected MSA officers
Matt Nolan (president) and Jessica Cash (vice president).
UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Little described the      "Futures Process," a planning
initiative that has recently been resumed on the Dearborn Campus. He noted that the
campus will be studying whether to provide residential facilities in the face of
increasing numbers of international students. He also called attention to recent campus
events and faculty accomplishments.
UM-Flint. There was no further report from the Flint Campus.
Michigan Student Assembly. MSA president Matt Nolan introduced himself and
gave an overview of MSA initiatives planned for the coming year. These include
creation of a student advisory board for the new residence hall; an oversight committee
for review of potential AATA negotiations; fireside chats with the Regents; expanding
funding for student groups; expanding the "my.umich" web portal; and adding a fall
break to the academic schedule.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for March 31, 2001.
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration.......................................... $  20,000
American Business Association Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for the Truck Research Affiliates Program in the Transportation Research Institute........ 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.........................................................  105,405
American Diabetes Association., Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  57,500
American Federation for Aging, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  174,980
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the Medical School, the Department of Kinesiology, and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 270,412
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  25,000
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  25,000


253




April Meeting, 2001


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research................ 165,754
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School............................................... 36,250
Ford R. Bryan Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 90,000
Charles F. Cannell, Ann Arbor
3,200 units of Armada Large Cap Ultra Fund- Class I mutual fund
for the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research... 36,614
Dorwin and Barbara Cartwright Trust
for support in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 150,000
Cigna Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Irwin and Sadie Cohn Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Metro Detroit,
Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. Cohn Professorship in the Law School.............................. 100,000
Consumers Energy Foundation, Jackson
for research in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,390
Robert D. Coven, New York, New York
for the Jean Coven Endowed Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  20,000
Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  33,000
Dart Foundation, Mason
for the Class of 1950 Emeritus Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 25,000
Dart Group II Foundation, Inc., Washington, DC
for the Sarah Emily Metzger Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music.............. 10,000
Delphi Foundation, Inc., Troy
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 65,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Richard V. Dietrich, Mount Pleasant
450 shares of AT&T Corporation,
300 shares of Xerox Corporation common stock, and a cash gift
for the Richard and Frances Dietrich Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Frances and R.V. Dietrich Endowed Fund in the Medical School.................... 50,278
Dow AgroSciences, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Public Health........................................  50,000
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Gunter Dufey Trust of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 100,000
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina
for the Candy R. Wei International Travel Endowment in the School of Art and Design..... 10,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 59,074
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, MaryLand
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Epker/Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
Fashion Footwear Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 184,721
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Schools of Music and Public Health..............................  150,600
Ford Motor Company Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan- Dearborn........... 225,780
Foundation for Psychobiologic Research, Hershey, Pennsylvania
for geriatric depression support in the Medical School............................... 25,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  17,920


254




April Meeting, 2001


Genomic Solutions, Inc., Ann Arbor
for special exhibition support in the Museum of Art................................ 10,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music............................................... 13,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 40,000
William and Valerie Hall Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Mary T. Hawkins Trust
for support in the University Hospitals........................................... 300,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MaryLand
for research  in  the M edical School............................................ 937,500
Hughes Network Systems, Germantown, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
250 shares of Home Depot Inc. common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Schools of Education and Law,
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens..............................................  10,976
IMRE, Singapore
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 60,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering......................... 26,966
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Social W ork..........................................  16,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, the School of Social Work, and
the  Institute  for Social Research.................................................  43,296
Jack A. Josephson, New York, New York
for the Class of 1951 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 15,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School, the School of Social Work, and
the Institute for Social Research................................................  177,905
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Fraumann Family Scholarship and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 26,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in  the University  Hospitals............................................ 43,195
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 62,884
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the M useum   of Art................................................  25,000
Kyorin Pharmaceutical, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 20,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  28,750
Charles R. and Phyllis B. Lowe Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Charles and Phyllis Lowe Fund in the Medical School........................ 530,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 10,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research and
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  303,750
James W. MacKenzie, Princeton, New Jersey
567 units of Dreyfus Global Growth Fund mutual fund and a cash gift
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery and
the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in the Medical School... 12,999
Magna International, Inc., Ontario, Canada
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Clara E. Mara Estate
for the Clara E. Mara Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 935,000


255




April Meeting, 2001


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School............................................... 25,000
Helen L. Martin Trust
for the Helen L. Martin Endowment in the Medical School........................... 51,827
George A. May Trust
for the George May Endowment in the Department of Athletics........................ 81,903
Elizabeth McCormick Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 252,539
Carmen McGrae, Ann Arbor
400 shares of State Street Corporation common stock
for gifts pending designation.................................................... 50,314
Stephen Meadow, Los Angeles, California
for the Elissa Meadow Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............ 12,500
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................. 1,400,000
Mental Illness Research Association, Auburn Hills
for research  in  the  M edical School.............................................  10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 26,233
Beth A. Miller, Saline
for the Robert W. Gesell Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering, in memory
of R obert W. G esell...........................................................  10,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 250,000
Frank L. Morton, M.D., Trust
for the Myron E. Wegman Fund in the School of Public Health........................ 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association, Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  46,919
Donald F. Nash Trust
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 50,000
National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for research in the Medical School...............................................  10,000
Edward C. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
1,000 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Edward C. and Joan M. Olson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
of chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 26,925
Aline Underhill Orten Foundation, Inc., Warren
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women............................. 10,000
Yoshiyuki Ozawa, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the School of Dentistry............................................ 25,328
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the School of Information.......................................... 206,600
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  145,100
Gustavus and Louise Pfeiffer Research Foundation, Denville, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  75,000
Barbara and Richard Raynor Medical Foundation, New York, New York
for the Raynor Foundation Award Fund in the College of Engineering................... 30,000
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Reitter and Schefenacker USA, Rochester Hills
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Sallie Mae Student Loan Marketing Association, Washington, D.C.
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  25,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  50,000
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for support in the Institute of Gerontology.........................................  10,000
Schnall Family Trust
for the Dorothy and Blaine Schnall Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............. 150,000
John Butler Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
1,000 shares of R.R. Donnelley and Sons Company common stock
for the John Butler Schwemm Fund in the Law School............................... 25,410
Richard S. Shafer, Ann Arbor
for the Richard S. Shafer Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  School of Education........................................................ 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Scholarship........................................... 12,500


256




April Meeting, 2001


Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 11,000
Solidica, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
Specs USA, Inc., Sarasota, Florida
for the Specs USA Gift Fund in the Medical School................................. 11,700
Subaru Research and Development, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 20,000
Elizabeth Thompson Trust
for the Anne E. Shipman Stevens Scholarship in the Martha Cook Residence Hall........ 400,000
John and Daniel Tishman Fund, New York, New York
for the John L. Tishman Fellowship in the College of Engineering..................... 500,000
UNOCAL Foundation, El Segundo, California
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 11,500
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Chair in Sustainable Systems and other support in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 300,000
Hung Wei, Cupertino, California
for the Candy R. Wei International Travel Endowment in the School of Art and Design.... 20,000
Margaret Winegarden Trust
for the Myron and Margaret Winegarden Endowed Visiting Professorship at
the University  of M ichigan- Flint...............................................  350,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School..................... 330,248
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy........................................... 10,000
Irma M. Wyman, Saint Paul, Minnesota
385 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock
for student support in the Center for the Education of Women........................ 10,164
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Faculty Lounge Fund in the School of
Business Administration and
for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 67,500
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Gregory L. Burhans, Battle Creek
art work for the Museum of Art
Bernard M. Goldman, Bloomfield Hills
books and journals for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Howmet Research Corporation, Whitehall
equipment for the College of Engineering
Hughes Network Systems, Germantown, Maryland
computer hardware for the College of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
an Ellipsometer tool for the College of Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for ITD
K-Space Associates, Inc. Ann Arbor
software for the College of Engineering
Donald J. Lewis, Ann Arbor
art work for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Richard P. Miller, Canton
books for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
More Custom Homes, Ltd., Ontario, Canada
photographs for the Museum of Art
Sappi, Landover, Maryland
paper for the School of Art and Design
Wolverine Vending, Ada
chewing products for the Department of Athletics
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors::
Lawrence I. Berkove,                       P.E. MacAllister, Indianapolis, Indiana
Southfield                                John Papadopoulos, Los Angeles, California
Betsy Cushman, Dearborn                    Tad Wartell, Palatine, Illinois
Lisa Knoblock, Swartz Creek


257




April Meeting, 2001


Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Dawes, Lillian G., M.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School, April 12, 2001
Fowlkes, J. Brian, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, April 12, 2001
Lim, Linda, Ph.D., Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of Business
Administration, May 1, 2001
Piette, John D., Ph.D. Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 12, 2001
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 2001-April 30, 2006
Bhise, Vivek D., Ph.D., Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Nurse, Esrold A., Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2005
Owen, Robert M., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Traugott, Michael, W., Chair, Department of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Amrine, Frederick R., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Germanic Languages, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, also appointed Interim
Chair, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Rush, Howard G., Associate Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed
Director, Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2001
Woestehoff, Sue A., Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Education,
UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, July 1-December 31, 2001
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Academic Administration Position
Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, School of Music, April 1, 2001
Naming Professorship
Hans W. Vahlteich Professorship, College of Pharmacy, May 1, 2001
Renaming Professorship
From the Frances E. VanVlack Professorship in Materials Science and Engineering to the L. H. and F. E.
VanVlack Professorship in Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, May 1, 2001


258




April Meeting, 2001


OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Olson, Gary M., Paul M. Fitts Collegiate Professor of Human Computer Interaction, School of
Information, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2005
Rubin, Gayle S., Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Reappointment to Professorships
Mazumder, Jyotirmoy, Robert H. Lurie Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Mule, James J., Maude T. Lane Professor of Surgical Immunology, Medical School,
March 15, 2001-March 14, 2006
Other Transactions
Lutterman, Kenneth G., Interim Assistant Dean for Research, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVE APPOINTMENT
Effective April 30, 2001
Soper, Cheryl, C.P.A., Controller and Director of Financial Operations
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chesney, David R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Horodowich, Elizabeth A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer II in History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2001
Rockwell, Stephen J., M.A., Lecturer in Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective April 12, 2000
Conjeevaram, Hari S., M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2001 (previously reported as Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
Mitchell, Eugene O., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
February 1, 2001-August 31, 2002 (previously reported as Lecturer in Anesthesiology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Advincula, Arnold P., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Balogh, Linda M., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine also appointed Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, April 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
Lowell, Mark J., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School, January 1-December 31, 2001
O'Donnell, Paul E., from Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Foreign
Languages, to Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
March 1, 2001
Thomas, Isaac C. III, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
November 1, 2000-August 31, 2001


259




April Meeting, 2001


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Jourdian, George W., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine and Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Pek, Sumer, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Santinga, John T., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blair, Sara B., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Ghebre-Yohannes, Arefaine, Associate Professor of Business Economics and Finance, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn School of Management, public service leave, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Goodman, Dena, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Heidelberger, Kathleen P., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
May 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Helvie, Mark A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
February 14-March 25, 2001
Hymans, Saul H., Professor Emeritus, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kessler, Marc L., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2001
Knott, John R. Jr., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Lassiter, Matthew D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lin, John, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave,
March 21-April 20, 2001
Lohr, Lawrence L., Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2001
Mohai, Paul, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Ning, Qiang, Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Schipani, Cinday A., Professor of Business Law, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Smith, David J. Jr., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
March 5-June 4, 2001
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective April 12, 2001
Coon, Minor J., Victor C. Vaughan Distinguished University Professor and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, phased retirement, September 1, 1995-January 31, 2002
(previously reported as September 1, 1995-August 31, 2006)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective April 12, 2001
Hanlon, Philip J., Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001


260




April Meeting, 2001


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Retired
Stark, Joan S., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, May 31, 2001
Weg, John G., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2001
Deceased
Mancini, William R., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, February 23, 2001
CANCELLATION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Effective April 12, 2001
Lynch, Deidre S., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, approved July 2000
Controller and Director of Financial Operations. Executive Vice President
Kasdin commented that the University of Michigan has a reputation in the financial
circles of higher education for its outstanding grasp of issues in the area of financial
statements, and said that the "brilliant" person responsible for this for the past 30 years,
Interim  Controller Fred White, had decided to retire.  Interim  Controller White
announced that he will be succeeded by Cheryl Soper, who has been appointed
controller and director of financial operations effective April 30, 2001.
Retirement Memoirs.     Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption four
retirement memoirs.
Richard M. Dahlke, Ph.D., professor of mathematics and statistics, College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active
faculty status on April 30, 2001.
Professor Dahlke received his B.S. degree from the University of Wisconsin at
Stevens Point in 1960, his M.A. degree from San Diego State University in 1964, and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1965 and 1971,
respectively. He taught high school mathematics in Wisconsin from 1960-63 and was
an assistant professor at SUNY in Buffalo, New York, from 1965-67. He joined the
University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a lecturer in 1967 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1973, and professor in 1978. During
1977-78, he was a visiting associate professor at Oregon State University.
Professor Dahlke's scholarly articles on mathematics and mathematics education
have been published in a variety of professional journals. His articles and study
modules on geometric probability popularized the subject for talented high school and
lower division college mathematics students across the country. He was a pioneer in
calling to the attention of university mathematics educators that research in mathematics
education should address issues of mathematics pedagogy as well as issues of the proper
sequencing of mathematics concepts and principles. During his two terms as chair of
the Teacher Preparation Committee of the Michigan Council of Teachers of
Mathematics, Professor Dahlke expanded the committee's work to include future
teachers as well as current teachers. While his main interest was teaching mathematics
for future elementary and secondary school teachers, he continued to teach calculus,
sustaining an interest from his early years of teaching, when he was instrumental in
designing a sequence of calculus courses based on the Keller method of directed,
independent study.


261




April Meeting, 2001


The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Richard M. Dahlke professor emeritus of mathematics and statistics.
Russell A. Moll, Ph.D., associate research scientist, Department of Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering in the College of Engineering; associate research
scientist, School of Natural Resources and Environment; and associate research
scientist, Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on January 5, 2001.
Dr. Moll received his B.A. degree from the University of Vermont in 1968, his
M.S. degree from Long Island University in 1971, and his Ph.D. degree from the State
University of New York at Stony Brook in 1974. He joined the University of Michigan
as a research investigator in the Great Lakes Research Division in 1974 and was
promoted to assistant research scientist in 1976 and associate research scientist in 1981.
He earned an M.S. degree in biostatistics from the University of Michigan in 1983.
Dr. Moll's research interests involved Great Lakes and other aquatic research. He
led a major 2-year research program involving 16 American, European, and African
scientists in West Africa. He was a member of the Great Lakes Research Division in
the Institute for Science and Technology and, later, the Center for Great Lakes and
Aquatic Science within the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. In 1985, Dr.
Moll joined the Michigan Sea Grant College Program as acting assistant director. He
became assistant director in 1988 and director in 1996. He also served as the associate
director of the University of Michigan Biological Station in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts from 1998-00. From 1990-96, Dr. Moll served as the founding
director of the Cooperative Institute of Limnology and Ecosystems Research, a
cooperative program between the University of Michigan, Michigan State University,
and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. This institute coordinates
large lakes and coastal cooperative research programs between Great Lakes Basin
researchers and the Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory in Ann Arbor.
The Regents salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming
Russell A. Moll associate research scientist emeritus.
Jane A. Romatowski, Ed.D., professor of education and associate dean of the
School of Education, University of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active status on
April 30, 2001.
Professor Romatowski received her B.A. degree in 1953 from Marygrove College
her M.Ed. in 1957 from the University of Detroit, and her Ed.D. degree in 1972 from
Wayne State University. From 1953-62, she was an elementary teacher in the Detroit
public schools. She joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a lecturer in
1972 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1973, associate professor in 1977, and
professor in 1983.
Professor Romatowski's scholarly research and publications have focused on creative
writing, early literacy, and gender and prosocial development in young children. Other
studies have examined how the use of children's literature can promote children's early
literacy development, spark enthusiasm for reading, and have a positive influence on their
social attitudes and acceptance of others. For 15 years, Professor Romatowski organized
creative workshops which attracted more than 5,000 area children to campus to share their
creative writing talents. In partnership with Woodward Elementary School in Detroit, she
also initiated a Saturday reading club project. This project provided young, inner-city
children with positive reading experiences and with a book collection for their home. It


262




April Meeting, 2001


developed into the Early Literacy program, extending into several school districts and
providing much needed early literacy experiences for hundreds of young children each
summer.
Professor Romatowski has received numerous honors, including the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Distinguished Service Award, Faculty Member of the Year Award,
the Susan B. Anthony Award, the Distinguished Faculty Award from the Michigan
Association of Governing Boards of State Universities, the Marygrove College
Education Division Award, the Outstanding Contribution to Education in Wayne
County Award, and the Michigan Reading Association Adult Educator of the Year
Award.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Jane A. Romatowski
professor emerita of education.
John G. Weg, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active faculty
status on March 31, 2001, after a most productive career as a teacher, educator, and
investigator.
Dr. Weg received his A.B. degree in 1955 from the College of the Holy Cross and
his M.D. degree in 1959 from New York Medical College. He served his internship and
residency at Walter Reed General Hospital and at Wilford Hall United States Air Force
Hospital from 1959-63. From 1967-71, Dr. Weg was assistant professor and then
associate professor of medicine at Baylor College of Medicine.  He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1971 as associate professor of internal medicine and
was promoted to professor in 1974. From 1971-74, Dr. Weg was the chief and
physician in charge of the pulmonary division in the Department of Internal Medicine
and, in 1974, he continued as the chief and physician in charge of the newly-formed
Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, a position he held until 1985.
Dr. Weg played a crucial role in the development of critical care medicine as a
discipline, both at the University of Michigan and nationally. His research helped
define the value of ventilation-profusion scans in acute pulmonary embolus and the
usefulness of other noninvasive diagnostic tools for diagnosis of this condition;
validated and defined the complications of pulmonary angiography and acute pulmonary
embolism; and defined the clinical course of pulmonary embolism. He also made
valuable contributions to our present approach to ventilatory management of patients
with acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Dr. Weg has been a national and international leader in pulmonary and critical care
medicine. He served as president of the American College of Chest Physicians in
1980-81. He was a founding member of the Association of Pulmonary Program
Directors in 1983 and served as chair of the Committee on Essentials of Pulmonary
Medicine and Critical Care Medicine Training Programs. His honors include the Bruce
H. Douglas Award for outstanding contributions to the field of pulmonary medicine and
a Medal of Honor from the Alumni Association of New York Medical College in 1990.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming John G. Weg professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
President Bollinger noted that the son of Regent Emeritus Deane Baker had died earlier
this week at the age of 39.


263




April Meeting, 2001


Degrees. Provost Cantor submitted the doctoral degree list for the April 2001
commencement and changes to previously approved degree lists. Copies of all of the
degree lists are on file in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the
University.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures (Operating Fund) for the Years Ended June 30, 2000 and 1999
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures (Operating Fund) for WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM for the
Years Ended June 30, 2000 and 1999. Regent Maynard pointed out that the audit report
for WFUM-TV was much healthier than the report from the previous year.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM              and WFUM-TV for
the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2000
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the audited financial reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and
WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2000.
Appointment of Auditors for 2000-01
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditors for
2000-01.
Depository and Disbursement Accounts
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution authorizing the executive vice president
and chief financial officer to delegate the responsibility for establishing depository and
disbursement accounts with financial institutions to transact the University's business.
RESOLUTION
Be It Resolved, that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer is
authorized to open and close depository and disbursement accounts with financial
institutions in the name of the Regents of the University of Michigan for the sole
purpose of conducting business transactions for the University of Michigan.
Be It Further Resolved, that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
may delegate in writing to other representatives of the University the authority to open
and close depositor and disbursement accounts with financial institutions in the name
of the Regents of the University of Michigan for the sole purpose of conducting
business transactions for the University of Michigan.
Be It Further Resolved, that the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
is authorized to sign, either manually or by facsimile, in the name of The Regents of the
University of Michigan, checks, drafts, notes, and other orders for the payment of
moneys drawn upon such depository and disbursement account or accounts in any
financial institution or institutions; to make fund transfers, in the name of The Regents


264




April Meeting, 2001


of the University of Michigan, including by electronic, oral, telephonic, or written
instructions; and to utilize any other treasuryt management services, including, without
limitation, electronic, investment, andfinancial advisory services.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
may delegate in writing to other University representatives the authority to sign either
manually or by facsimile in the name of The Regents of the University of Michigan,
checks, drafts, notes, and other orders for the payment of moneys drawn upon such
depository and disbursement account or accounts in any financial institution or
institutions.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
may delegate in writing to other University representatives the authority to make fiund
transfers, in the name of The Regents of the University of Michigan, including by
electronic, oral, telephonic, or written instructions.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
may delegate in writing to other University representatives the authority to utilize any
other treasury management services, including, without limitation, electronic,
investment, and financial advisory se, ices.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Vice President and Secretary of the University is
authorized to certify copies of this resolution and the incumbency of appropriate
University officers when requested by a financial institution and such certification
made by the Vice President and Secretary of the University shall remain in effect until
such financial institution or institutions shall receive from the University written notice
to the contra;y.
Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved two commitments of $15.0 million each from the Long Term
Portfolio to Lubert-Adler Real Estate Fund III and to National Capital Properties Trust II.
Palmer Drive Commons Building
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that a budget increase of $1 million is
being proposed for the Palmer Drive Commons Building to accommodate an additional
6,500 square feet of space. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent White,
the Regents unanimously approved a revised budget of $33,000,000 for the Palmer Drive
Commons Building project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a
construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that a $24.2 million project that will upgrade
all major infrastructure and accommodate certain programmatic improvements within the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building is being proposed as the next
phase of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Project. On a
motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously
approved issuing the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Project for


265




April Meeting, 2001


bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Edward H. Kraus Building Renovation of Multiple Laboratories
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that this project represents the
University's ongoing commitment to maintenance and infrastructure improvements
around campus. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the
Regents unanimously approved the Edward H. Kraus Building Renovation of Multiple
Laboratories Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Fiber Optic Infrastructure Improvements
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the extension of the fiber optic network as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Gordon Hall, Village of Dexter
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that following approval of the sale of the
Gordon Hall property, the University sought to have the house and a few acres around it
designated as a local historic district. The preliminary report of a study committee
appointed by the Washtenaw County Historic District Commission has recommended that
2.36 acres of the parcel be designated a historic district. Following a public hearing on the
proposed district, a final report will be prepared and presented to the Washtenaw County
Board of Commissioners for action. Once the Washtenaw County Board has acted, the
University will proceed with marketing of the entire property, subject to the constraints
imposed by the board of commissioners to the building and to the 2.36 acres surrounding
the building.
President Bollinger noted that residents of the Village of Dexter are pleased with
how the transaction is proceeding.
Purchasing Contracts with Architecture Buro
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that this item concerns two purchase
orders of $4,000 each. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved two purchasing contracts with Architecture Buro. Regent
Newman was away from the table for this and the following two votes. Because the sole
proprietor of Architecture Buro, Christian Unverzagt, is also a University of Michigan
employee, these contracts fall under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contracts are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and Architecture Buro.
2.   The service provided is design work for college functions and lecture series, to be
provided for the time period beginning March 1, 2001, and ending February 28, 2002,
with each purchase order to be in the amount of $4,000.00.
3.  The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Christian Unverzagt, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of Architecture Buro.


266




April Meeting, 2001


License Agreement with LivingText LLC
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
LivingText LLC for the software, "Hurricanes '98." Because the owner of LivingText
LLC, Perry Samson, is also a University of Michigan faculty member and a co-developer
of the software, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and LivingText, LLC, a
company owned by Perry Samson.
2.   Contract terms include:
Non-exclusive right to further develop and commercialize the multimedia works. The
University retains rights to use and continue to develop these works and license rights
to others.
The royalty is a one-time fee of $5,000.
Licensee will include acknowledgment in the product sold of the collaborative nature
of the development.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Perry Samson arises from his ownership in LivingText LLC.
Membership Agreement between the University of Michigan Center for Wireless
Integrated Microsystems (WIMS) and Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement that would allow Integrated Sensing Systems
(ISSYS) to become a member of the Center for Wireless Integrated Microsystems
(WIMS). Because two University faculty members, Kensall D. Wise and Khalil Najafi,
are also founders of ISSYS, members of the ISSYS board of directors, and owners of
minority amounts of founders stock in ISSYS, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan Center for Wireless Integrated
Microsystems (WIMS) and Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS).
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The membership fee to be paid by ISSYS is $10,000 and covers a membership period
of one year. The agreement involves no specific deliverables unique to ISSYS.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Professor Wise and Professor Najafi arises from their
affiliation with ISSYS.
Research Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and TSRL,
Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a research subcontract between the University of Michigan and
TSRL Inc. as part of a Michigan Life Sciences Corridor (MLSC) grant received by a
University researcher. Because TSRL Inc. is partly owned by a University of Michigan
faculty member, Gordon Amidon, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TSRL, Inc.


267




April Meeting, 2001


2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The amount of the subcontract to the University is $314,355 over the period of January
1, 2001-December 31, 2003. The amount of the total MLSC award to UM is
$1,221,431 over the same period.
3.   Gordon Amidon will devote no effort to this project on behalf of the University or the
company and is organizationally distant from the principal investigator of the MLSC
grant.
Amendments to An Ordinance to Regulate Parking and Traffic and to Regulate the
Use and Protection of the Buildings and Property of the Regents of the University of
Michigan to further restrict weapons
Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that this is a request to extend to outside
visitors policies regarding concealed weapons that currently apply to staff and faculty. On
a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved amendments to the ordinance, Article 1 and Article X, as noted below:
AMENDED REGENTS ORDINANCE
ARTICLE I
GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE
Section 1. Geographic Scope of Ordinance. Except as otherwise provided below, this
ordinance shall apply solely to the Ann Arbor campus of the University of Michigan which,
for the purposes of this Ordinance, is deemed to include all Ann Arbor campus property
owned or leased by the Regents of The University of Michigan.
ARTICLE X
WEAPONS
Section 1. Scope of Article X. Article X applies to all property owned, leased or
otherwise controlled by the Regents of the University of Michigan and applies regardless of
whether the individual has a concealed weapons permit or is otherwise authorized by law to
possess, discharge or use any device referenced below.
Section 2. Possession of Firearms, Dangerous Weapons and Knives. Except as
otherwise provided in Section 4, no person shall, while on any property owned, leased or
otherwise controlled by the Regents of the University of Michigan: (1) possess any firearms
or any other dangerous weapon as defined in or interpreted under Michigan law or (2) wear
on his or her person or carry in his or her clothing any knife, sword or machete having a blade
longer than four (4) inches, or, in the case of a knife with a mechanism to lock the blade in
place when open, longer than three (3) inches.
Section 3. Discharge or Use of Firearms, Dangerous Weapons and Knives. Except as
otherwise provided in Section 4, no person shall discharge or otherwise use any device listed
in the preceding Section on any property owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the
Regents of the University of Michigan.
Section 4. Exceptions.
(1) Except to the extent regulated under Subparagraph (2), the prohibitions in this Article X
do not apply:


268




April Meeting, 2001


(a) to University employees who are authorized to possess and/or use such a device
pursuant to Standard Practice Guide 201.94;
(b) to non-University law enforcement officers of legally established law enforcement
agencies or to other non-University employees who, in either situation, are authorized
by their employer to possess or use such a device during the time the employee is
engaged in work requiring such a device;
(c) when someone possesses or uses such a device as part of a military or similar
uniform or costume in connection with a public ceremony or parade or theatrical
performance;
(d) when someone possesses or uses such a device in connection with a regularly
scheduled educational, recreational or training program authorized by the University;
(e) when someone possesses or uses such a device for recreational hunting on property
which has been designated for such activity by the University provided such possession
and use is in strict compliance with applicable law; or
(f) when the Director of the University's Department of Public Safety has waived the
prohibition based on extraordinary circumstances. Any such waiver must be in writing
and must define its scope and duration.
(2) The Director of the Department of Public Safety may impose restrictions upon
individuals who are otherwise authorized to possess or use such a device pursuant to
Subsection (1) when the Director determines that such restrictions are appropriate under the
circumstances.
Section 5. Violation Penalty. A person who violates this Article X is guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, punishable by imprisonment for not less than ten (10)
days and no more than sixty (60) days, or by fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or
both.
Approval of 2001-2002 University Housing Residence Hall and Family Housing
Rates
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed average rate increases of 5% for residence hall room
and board and 5% for family housing apartment rentals. Regent Newman commented that
she appreciated the thorough and succinct background material that had been provided for
the proposal.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Michael Edwards, AFSCME Local 1583 president, Fred Vigel, president of Huron Valley
Central Labor Council, Cedric DeLeon, president of the Graduate Employees
Organization, Cybele Blood, student, and Robert Goodspeed, student, all on outsourcing
and the partnership with AATA; Gary Hann, alumnus, on legal outrage; and Peter
Romer-Friedman, student, on the Workers Rights Consortium/Fair Labor Association.


269




April Meeting, 2001


Motion to Meet in Nonformal Session
Regent Maynard moved that this formal session of the Regents be adjourned and a
nonformal session begun for the purposes of consulting with the board's attorney
regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation and
considering a personnel item. Regent Horning seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Adjournment
The meeting continued in nonformal session from 11:25 a.m. until 12:05 p.m., after
which, there being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
is scheduled for May 17-18, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


270




MAY MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday and Friday, May 17-18, 2001
The meeting scheduled for May 17-18, 2001 was canceled.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


271




May Meeting, 2001


272




JUNE MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 21, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Taylor. Also present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President
Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President
Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Ulaby. Regent
White was absent; Vice President Wilbanks arrived shortly after the start of the meeting.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order. He offered condolences to Provost
Cantor's husband, Steven Brechin, on the loss of his father. He reported on a number of
recent University news items and events, along with accomplishments of faculty and
students and deaths of staff members and former faculty members.
Michigan Academic Competition Team.     Following his remarks, President
Bollinger called on Regent Maynard, who invited members of the Michigan Academic
Competition Team to the podium as she read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend the
2000-2001  Michigan  Academic   Competition  team  for another
outstanding season and for winning the team's fourth College Bowl
National Championship Tournament in six years - a record in College
Bowl tournamen t history.
Led by Coach Anne Mitchell, the five-member team    that
represented the University was comprised of captain Michael Davidson,
Mark Calaguas, Ben Heller, Ryan McClarren, and Ati Tislerics.
The team's victory over leading contenders from other regions
and ultimately the University of Chicago at the College Bowl National
Championship was the Michigan Academic Competitions' second major
title this year.  In March, Davidson and teammates Ezequiel
Berdichevsky, Adam Kemezis, and Noel Erinjeri defeated fifteen other
teams to   win the Academic    Competition  Federation  National
Championship.
The Regents proudly recognize all the students who participated
in the Michigan Academic Competition program and congratulate the
winners of this year's College Bowl National Championship Tournament
and Academic Competition Federation National Championship.


273




June Meeting, 2001


Mr. Tislerics thanked the Regents on behalf of the team, both for the recognition
and for the funding, and he noted that in his thirteen years of involvement in academic
competition, "I have never seen an assembly of talent like we have here on this campus,
and that speaks very well of the University." A round of applause followed.
Retirement of Professor Sidney Fine. President Bollinger called to the podium
Professor Sidney Fine and read his faculty retirement memoir:
Retirement Memoir
Sidney Fine, Ph.D., professor of history and the Andrew Dickson
White Professor of Histo;r in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Fine received his B.A. degree from Western Reserve
University in 1942 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1944 and 1948, respectively. He began his career at the
University of Michigan as an instructor in 1948 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1951, associate professor in 1955, and professor
in 1959. He was appointed the Andrew Dickson White Distinguished
Professor of History in 1974.
For 53 years, Professor Fine has been an exemplary scholar,
teacher, and colleague. He is an outstanding leader in American labor
history and is the foremost scholar of the social and political history of
Michigan. Among his 11 books, which altogether have won 8 awards,
are a 3-volume study of the life and times of Frank Murphy and accounts
of the General Motors sit-down strike of 1936-1937 and the Detroit riot
of 1967. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship, was elected president
of Labor Historians, and received 3 honorary degrees. He chaired the
Department of History from   1969-71, served on the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee from 1960-65,
and was a member of many other college and departmental conmmittees.
Professor Fine received the University of Michigan's Distinguished
Faculty Achievement Award in 1969 and was named the Henry Russel
Lecturer for 1984-85.
Professor Fine has always been an extraordinarily dedicated and
effective teacher.  The Council for Advancement and Support of
Education named him Professor of the Year for the state of Michigan in
1986, and he received a special tribute from the state in 1997. He is the
only member of the UM faculty to have had the dual honor of being
named Henry Russel Lecturer and of receiving the Golden Apple Award
from undergraduate students for outstanding university teaching.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming
Sidney Fine professor emeritus of history and the Andrew Dickson White
Professor Emeritus of History.
President Bollinger described Professor Fine as a "teacher's teacher" and "faculty
member's faculty member" and noted that when spending time with him it was


274




June Meeting, 2001


immediately apparent why he was both very effective and very popular. Professor Fine
thanked President Bollinger and the Regents and noted that he had spent his entire
career at Michigan and had " never had a moment of regret." A standing ovation
followed.
President Bollinger called on Regent McGowan, who called Provost Cantor to the
podium and read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute and express
their gratitude to Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic
Affairs Nancy Cantor as she leaves the University on July 20, 2001, to
become chancellor of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Chainpaign.
Appointed in 1997, Provost Cantor is the first woman at the
University of Michigan to serve as chief academic officer.  Her
leadership has been characterized by great energy, compassion, and a
commitment to the highest academic values. She has provided the
resources and intellectual framework for important initiatives in
undergraduate  education  and  interdisciplinary  scholarship  and
research, while promoting diversity, gender equity, and a fiamily-friendly
environment for faculty, students, and staff.  Provost Cantor has
championed Michigan's libraries, museums, and natural areas - the rich
resources she calls public goods - and has expanded international
opportunities for students and faculty.
Provost Cantor, professor of psychology, senior research
scientist, and former dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, is widely known for her outstanding work as a social
psychologist both at the University of Michigan and at Princeton
University, where she previously taught and served as chair of the
psychology department. She has been a superb spokesperson on behalf
of higher education, leading national policy discussions on such
important topics as affirmative action, gender equity, and graduate
education. She is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National
Academy of Sciences, a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, vice chair of the Board of Directors of the American
Association for Higher Education, and a member of many boards and
professional associations.
With deep admiration and appreciation, the Regents congratulate
and extend best wishes to Provost Nancy Cantor as she leaves to become
chancellor of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
A standing ovation followed. Provost Cantor thanked the Regents and observed
that "this place is and will always be for me the greatest university there can be." She
noted that "there's nothing like the intellectual grandeur and scale, collaboration,
intensity, energy, and honesty" found at Michigan. She recognized the extraordinary
efforts of the provost's office staff throughout her tenure.


275




June Meeting, 2001


Recommended Promotions to the Ranks of Professor and Associate Professor,
2001-2002
Provost Cantor reviewed the promotion process, noting the multiple reviews that
occur for each proposed promotion. She commented on the "incredible breadth" and
excellence of the faculty and, as examples, highlighted the accomplishments of four
faculty members for whom promotion was being recommended: James Bardwell,
assistant professor of biology; Linda Gregerson, associate professor of English; Clark
Nguyen, assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer science; and Edward
West, associate professor of art.
As examples of the cadre of promotions from the Medical School, Executive Vice
President Omenn highlighted the work of Lori Isom, assistant professor of
pharmacology; Susan Goold, assistant professor of internal medicine; and Joseph
Metzger, associate professor of physiology and associate professor of internal medicine.
President Bollinger noted that the annual faculty promotions decision is one of the
most important decisions administrators and Regents are called upon to make.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the recommended promotions to the ranks of professor and
associate professor for 2001-2002.
Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, Ann Arbor
Campus
President Bollinger called on Professor Varsha Mehta, chair of the Committee on the
Economic Status of the Faculty.  Professor Mehta highlighted the issues that the
committee focused on during the past year: faculty compensation; health care benefits,
with special attention to prescription drug coverage; tuition savings programs; salary
equity analysis; governance rights for non-tenure track faculty; and faculty recruitment and
retention.
Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, Flint Campus
Professor Steve Myers, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty on the Flint Campus, reported on that committee's findings for 2000-2001. Major
issues include salaries that are below the average of state peers; real salary loss of 2.34%
(adjusted for inflation) since 1992; and severe salary compression at the assistant and
associate professor levels.
The meeting then continued with consideration of the Consent Agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted the minutes of the meeting of April 12,
2001.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Reports on Investment,
Plant Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents Report on
Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, December 14, 2000 to
March 31, 2001. He observed that the fiscal year returns on investments are expected
to be down significantly from last year's returns.


276




June Meeting, 2001


Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Vice President Ulaby submitted Reports of Projects Established for April and May
2001. He also reported on the implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research
Grants, Contracts, and Agreements, FY00.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn
displayed an award that the Health System had received for being named 2001 Recycler
of the Year in the State of Michigan, and he presented data on the amounts of various
types of materials that had been recycled. He noted that environmental noise levels
would be given consideration in new building construction.
Executive Vice President Omenn also noted that the Health System budget remains
on track and very close to its target operating margin, in part due to increasing
productivity, cost savings, clinical redesign, and expansion of services to increase the
coverage for fixed costs.
Student Affairs. Vice President Harper introduced two family housing residents
who are members of the residents' council, Mr. Brian Jensen and Mr. John Sprague.
They presented a certificate of appreciation to Provost Cantor to recognize her efforts on
behalf of student families and the family housing community, including expanded
daycare opportunities and establishment of the Family Housing Resource Center.
UM-Dearborn.     Chancellor Little  commented  on  the  six  promotion
recommendations for the Dearborn campus and noted that the process for their
promotions is as rigorous as that for the Ann Arbor campus. He also reported on the
opening celebration for the Environmental Interpretive Center, which attracted 800
guests from the University and the community. He noted that move-in has occurred for
the recently completed CASL Building, and that this building is a splendid addition to
the campus. He also highlighted the reappointment of Provost Robert Simpson and
reported on an interdisciplinary group of faculty who are working together to establish a
new curriculum, "Science and Technology Studies of the Automobile."
UM-Flint. Regarding the report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty, Chancellor Mestas said that he was grateful to the committee for their analysis
of the data and the integrity with which they handled it. He noted that the faculty
deserve higher compensation. With respect to the promotion recommendations, he
observed that these faculty all fulfill the broadest range of faculty roles by serving as
excellent researchers, excellent teachers, and outstanding members of the campus
community.
Chancellor Mestas concluded by expressing to Provost Nancy Cantor his own
gratitude and that of the Flint campus for her service and noted the passion she displays
about issues that are important to her.
Michigan Student Assembly. The Regents received the monthly report from
Michigan Student Assembly.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for April 30, 2001 and May 31, 2001. She also highlighted the appointment of
Frederick M. Van Sickle as assistant dean for development and external relations,
College of LSA, and associate vice president for development.


277




June Meeting, 2001


Harry D. Allis, East Lansing
3,993 shares of Professionals Group Inc., common stock
for the Harry D. and Susan A. Allis Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the ultimate benefit of Camp Michigania..................................... $100,424
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School.... 103,239
American Chemical Society, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy........................................ 10,000
American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 24,287
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School............................................... 15,000
Annenberg Foundation, Saint Davids, Pennsylvania
for the Walter H. Annenberg Professorship in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy............................................................. 1,000,000
Anonymous Donor
100,000 par of a municipal bond
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in the Medical School......... 104,244
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 34,996
AT&T Labs-Research, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 20,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois Xavier Bagnoud Center in the College of Engineering.................. 34,985
D. Theodore Berghorst, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
Donald R. Burkhardt, Okemos
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Dentistry.................. 10,000
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 170,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  100,000
Irwin Chase, Jr., Deep River, Connecticut
5,636 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Irwin Chase Plaza Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 283,223
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  50,000
Ned Davis, Harlingen, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  25,000
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Watershed Annual Event and Web MBA Development Fund at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 80,000
Detroit U-M Club Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for student aid at the University of Michigan....................................... 17,000
Ivy Lai Dixon Trust
for the Patrick A. and Ivy Lai Dixon Endowed Scholarship in the School of Education..... 65,817
Emergency Medicine Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the University  Hospitals...........................................  27,406
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration............................ 25,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and
for research in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 217,940
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  138,213
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  44,900
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work and
for the Judaic Studies Directors Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 22,500
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,000
Hubert W. Gouldthorpe, Naples, Florida
1,260 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................... 50,362


278




June Meeting, 2001


Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
for the  M useum   of Art........................................................ 20,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for W UOM................................................................. 25,000
Carroll J. Haas Foundation, Mendon
for the Class of 1947 Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............. 10,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library...... 32,500
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 28,905
Hitachi, Brisbane, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 25,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 46,000
J.W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 40,000
Elizabeth Judson Johnson, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Fifth Third Bankcorp common stock
for the Red Berenson Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 25,960
Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering....... 80,000
Johnson and Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  15,060
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health...................................... 1,322,958
Ruth S. Jones, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Warren Miller Scholars Endowment in the Institute for Social Research........... 15,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  306,226
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,930
Mildred Kelly Estate
for the Mildred Culbert and Fred W. Kelly Fellowship Fund in the Medical School....... 110,836
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies...........................................................  100,000
William L. Kopp, Jackson, Mississippi
225 shares of Reliant Energy Inc., common stock
for the William and Alice Kopp Endowment in the Medical School..................... 10,338
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the  M useum   of Art........................................................ 50,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies............................................................  40,625
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in  the  School of M usic...............................................  12,180
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Schools of Education and Social Work............................ 88,000
Marsal Family Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 20,000
Marylouise D. Meder, Emporia, Kansas
for the Marylouise D. Meder Scholarship in the School of Information.................. 15,000
Pauline K. Mendelssohn Trust
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................. 25,000
Metaldyne, Taylor
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,500
Edward A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration...... 20,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................... 47,000
Mid West Financial Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit in the University Hospitals...... 10,800
Ministry of Culture, Athens, Greece
for Classical Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 12,973


279




June Meeting, 2001


Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School...............................................  15,000
Edward M. Nagel Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support of the Law  School.................................................. 40,000
Werner and Ruth Nartel Foundation, Flint
for the Werner Nartel Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 50,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
1,000 shares of Concord EFS Inc., common stock
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 45,188
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School................................................ 18,000
Pfizer Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 34,788
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee matching  gifts...................................................  21,100
Edward Ravitz Trust
for support in  the University  Hospitals........................................... 500,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
215 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support in the School of Education................... 10,054
Virginia L. Rinck Estate
for facilities support in the College of Engineering..................................  10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 68,900
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  12,668
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 200,000
Louis and Nellie Sieg Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  10,000
Carol Jessica Sturtevant Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  20,100
Jack D. Sweet, Richardson, Texas
for the Ralph W. Aigler Professorship in the Law School............................ 150,000
Christopher T. Tamer, Snellville, Georgia
for support in the Department of Athletics.........................................  11,000
Tappi Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 35,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Union Pacific MBA Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
United Jewish Foundation of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 69,000
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  50,000
University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...................................... 77,500
Visteon, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  16,600
Wells Fargo and Company, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the University of Michigan-Flint, and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,643
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................ 15,000
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Federal Way, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowship Fund in the School of
Natural Resources and  Environment.............................................. 22,500
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 377,819


280




June Meeting, 2001


James H. Wineman, Southfield
355 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the John H. Wineman Education and Research Fund in Radiation in
the Medical School........................................................... 19,862
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education....................................................... 22,250
Ann and Bob Aikens Family Foundation, Troy
for the Ann and Robert B. Aikens Endowment in the Law School...................... 11,000
Norma Aleck Estate
for the Fulton R. Aleck Endowment.............................................. 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School.... 103,239
American Chemical Society, Washington, DC
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 25,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  57,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering, the Division of Kinesiology, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Medical School............................ 278,692
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  30,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 250,000
Anonymous Donor
for Gifts Pending  Designation................................................  1,000,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Institute for Social Research................. 86,752
ArvinMeritor Fund, Troy
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 20,000
AT&T Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  12,985
Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,100
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering............. 140,959
Ruth Hickman Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
555 shares of Du Pont de Nemours and Company common stock
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 26,718
James A. Baker III, Houston, Texas
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................. 10,000
Bank of America Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for support in the School of Business Administration...............................  10,000
David Barsky, Wyandotte
1,500 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the J.M. Laberge Memorial Fund in the Medical School........................... 40,560
Keith Bennett Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan...............................  25,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program in the Law School.............. 30,000
Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
172 shares of General Electric Company and
137 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School..................... 14,671
Leland F. Blatt Family Foundation, Harper Woods
for the Blatt Family Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................ 50,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
200,000 shares of SRA International common stock
for the William K. and Delores S. Brehm Endowed Professorship in
the  M edical School........................................................  1,000,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Ventana Medical Systems common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  25,775


281




June Meeting, 2001


William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
451 shares of Fulton Financial Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support of the Law  School................................................... 12,500
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
3,000 shares of Stora Enso Oyj common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr. Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration,
for the R.G. Conger Papyrology Endowment in the University Library,
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship Fund, and
for the University Musical Society............................................... 35,385
David Revocable Trust
for the Jane Gibson Likert Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women........ 12,469
Dearborn Firefighters, Dearborn
for the Dearborn Firefighters Burn Drive Endowment in the Medical School............. 25,000
William T. Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Business Administration,
the Medical School, the Center for the Education of Women, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University  Musical Society..............................................  14,000
Jeanette R. Duckworth, Lake
3,921 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Jeanette Duckworh Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Nursing and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 181,836
Stanley C. Duffendack, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
2,000 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Duffendack Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Nursing, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies................................... 100,200
EMC Corporation, Hopkinton, Massachusetts
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 10,800
Frederick A. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
500 shares of Mitchell Energy and Development Corporation and
96 shares of Thermo Electron Corporation common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment...................... 31,044
Ernst and Young Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  65,150
Excell Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Division  of Kinesiology......................................... 20,000
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School................... 50,000
Margaret Figley, Grantham, New Hampshire
120 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Dr. Melvin and Margaret Figley Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  M edical School...........................................................  10,742
William N. Findley Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the William N. Findley Endowment in the College of Engineering.................. 156,772
Russell H. Fiske, Sr., Richmond, Virginia
130 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company
and 500 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock
for the Russell H. Fiske Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy and
for support in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 43,942
Ford Motor Company Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering,
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 235,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  166,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation Research Institute....... 40,000
Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Dearborn
for the C.P. Cavafy Professorship in Modern Greek Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the Arts................................................  195,000
Michael J. Franzblau, San Rafael, California
for scholarships in  the M edical School............................................ 10,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the M atthaei Botanical Gardens..............................................  50,000
Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and Affiliated Trusts, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000


282




June Meeting, 2001


Lannquist Hamilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................. 15,000
Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the School of Education..........................................  50,000
Hasbro Children's Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Social Work.......................................... 36,048
Sidney M. Hiller Living Trust
for the Program for Understanding Neurologic Diseases Fund in the Medical School,
in memory of Harriet Hiller.................................................... 50,000
Violet Howland Trust
for the Violet Howland Trauma Burn Fund and other research in the Medical School...... 51,080
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering....................................... 200,000
James C. Jeas Estate
for the James C. Jeas Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning............................................... 375,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, the School of Public Health, and
the School of Social W ork.................................................... 122,456
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School..............................................  754,219
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 340,244
Mildred Kelly Estate
for the Mildred Culbert and Fred W. Kelly Fellowship in the Medical School............. 25,135
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School..................... 37,063
Stanley R. Levy, Champaign, Illinois
270.709 units of Stein Roe Growth Stock Fund mutual fund
for the James H. Robertson Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  10,000
Claire E. Lewis Trust
for the Bernice Skowran Music Fund in the School of Music.......................... 15,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 27,500
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute and other support in the School of
Business Administration and the College of Engineering and
for support in the College of Pharmacy..........................................  226,667
Mrs. Philip T. Lincoln, Jackson
for the Philip Lincoln, Jr., Memorial Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  53,000
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 200,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 100,000
Thomas Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Tom and JoAnn Maentz Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 50,000
Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 25,000
Marsal Family Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 10,000
Vincent Massey, Ann Arbor
for the Vincent Massey Professorship in Biological Chemistry in the Medical School...... 10,000
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
Josip Matovinovic Endowed Clinical Medical Fellowship in the Medical School.......... 25,000
McCarthy Family Trust
33,224 shares of Exponent Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 312,513
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
200 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration...... 10,499
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 50,000
Robert E. Meredith Trust
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  10,000


283




June Meeting, 2001


Charlotte M. Morehouse Estate
for Undergraduate Student Aid................................................. 42,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 259,395
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...............................................  17,500
William E. Nissen Estate
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 10,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in the School of Dentistry............................................. 31,900
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School................................................ 20,250
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Whitmore Lake
for support of the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Violet T. Oishi Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 39,761
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 29,692
William C. Parkinson, Ann Arbor
3,210 units of Fidelity mutual fund
for the William C. Parkinson Graduate Student Support Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts................................................  101,982
Pennzoil Company, Houston, Texas
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Rachael Peterson Trust
for Undergraduate  Student Aid.................................................. 41,232
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the University Musical Society............... 35,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School...... 10,750
Pharmacia, Kalamazoo
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 25,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 13,000
Pharmacia Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  17,454
George James Platsis, Okemos
for the Arthur and Mary Platsis Fund for Greek Classical Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 66,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers, New York, New York
for the Victor L Bernard-Price Waterhouse LLP Collegiate Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 30,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  23,050
William Pritula, Ann Arbor
for the William Pritula Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering.....................................................  10,000
Jeanne and Sanford Robertson Fund, San Francisco, California
for the  President's Fund.....................................................  5,000,000
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................  100,000
Ernestine Ruben, Princeton, New Jersey
for special exhibitions support in the Museum  of Art................................. 50,250
Jonathan Rye, Troy
for the Greenfield Commercial Credit Endowed Scholarship in the School of
Business Adm inistration.......................................................  20,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 48,548
Service Employees International, Union Local 591, Flint
for the SEIU Local 591 Scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint................ 50,000
Mary E. Shannon, Winchester, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  18,465
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sloan Research Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 20,000


284




June Meeting, 2001


George and Louise Snell Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.............................. 79,648
David S. Stone, Chicago, Illinois
1,000 shares of Click Commerce Inc., common stock
for support of the Law  School................................................... 14,575
Miriam F. Tabor, Sarasota, Florida
423 shares of May Department Stores Company common stock
for the Amson C. and Miriam F. Scholarship in the School of Music................... 14,873
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland, Michigan
for the Michigan Community Service Corps Fund................................... 25,000
United Audit Systems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund....................... 10,800
Universal Credit Services, Inc., Brighton
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
660 shares of Stryker Corp., common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M.D. Professorship of Surgery Fund in the Medical School.... 37,950
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
for the Al and Gerry Walk Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000
Olive Ingrid Webb Estate
for support in the School of Information.......................................... 162,300
George R. Webster, Vail, Colorado
154 shares of McGraw-Hill Companies Inc., common stock
for the Arthur Webster Memorial Fund in the Law School............................ 10,012
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Chair of Sustainable Systems, the
Transition for the Center for Sustainable Systems Fund, and
other support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................... 315,000
Betty L. Welsh, Dearborn
785 shares of Kellogg Company common stock
for the EIC Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 20,171
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  65,652
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,000
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
482 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School................................................... 10,479
Joseph D. Williams, Bernardsville, New Jersey
1,245 shares of Charles Schwab Corporation common stock
for the Joseph D. Williams Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy..................... 25,996
Margaret Winegarden Trust
for the Myron and Margaret Winegarden Endowed Visiting Professorship at
the University  of M ichigan-Flint................................................ 500,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 50,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 20,000
S.K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S.K. Yee Scholarship in the Law  School..................................... 50,000
Roy H. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Walgreen Co. common stock and
500 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 90,945
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor
a photograph for the Museum of Art
Andrew Breeding, Ann Arbor
a white spruce tree for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
Cisco Systems Inc., San Jose, California
equipment for the College of Engineering
Dell Computer, Round Rock, Texas
computers for the College of Engineering
Timothy L. Dickinson, Washington, D.C.
art work for the Museum of Art


285




June Meeting, 2001


General Motor Corporation, Alexandria, Virginia
equipment for the College of Engineering
Jeffrey D. Gray, Detroit
books for the Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Myrl H. Hucker, Tucson, Arizona
art work for the Museum of Art
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the College of Engineering
Douglas C. Kelley, Ann Arbor
art work for the Museum of Art
Michigan Information Technology Network, Inc., Ann Arbor
equipment for the College of Engineering
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
equipment and software for the College of Engineering
Walter Miller, Syracuse, New York
art work for the Museum of Art
Perich and Partners, Ltd., Ann Arbor
brochure design for the Department of Athletics
Eric B. Quist, Ann Arbor
31 books for the College of Engineering
Hilda Vest, Detroit
historical documents for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Richard S. Buswell, Helena, Montana
Valerie B. Carey, Ann Arbor
Anna H. Chrypinski, Flat Rock
James Davis Estate
FastIO Systems, Inc., Albany, California
Ferguson Manufacturing, Pontiac
Suzanne Drews Giddings, Highland
Stefan Karadian, West Bloomfield
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Carol Kramer, Novi
Cathy Leonard, Ann Arbor
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
Henrietta V. Nowakowski, Dearborn Heights
Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
Marilyn Pobanz, Ann Arbor
Kathleen Wickler, Bloomfield Hills
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions.
She highlighted the appointments of Rosina Bierbaum as dean of the School of Natural
Resources and Environment and Robert Dolan as dean of the School of Business
Administration.
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2001
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Soo, Lydia M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Art and Design
Inuzuka, Sadashi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
Marinaro, Louis, from Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Overmyer, Dwayne, from Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Porter, Marianetta, from Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with tenure
West, Edward, from Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure


286




June Meeting, 2001


School of Business Administration
Afuah, Allan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International
Business, with tenure
Bhattacharyya, Sugato, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure
Blair, David, from Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Dechow, Patricia, from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Fort, Timothy, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure
Moore, Scott, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems,
with tenure
Sutcliffe, Kathleen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Krebsbach, Paul H., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
McCauley, Laurie K., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Mooney, David J., from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Education
Moje, Elizabeth, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Engineerin g
Adriaens, Peter, from Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Brei, Diann E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Carroll, Mary Anne, from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure,
to Professor, with tenure
Chick, Stephen E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, with tenure
Hayes, Kim F., from Associate Professor of Environmental Engineering, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Ioannou, Photios G., from Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Jahanian, Farnam, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenture, to Professor, with tenure
Nguyen, Clark T. C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Norris, Theodore B., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Papaefthymiou, Marios C., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure, to Associate Professor, with tenure
Prakash, Atul, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Sarabandi, Kamal, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
to Professor, with tenure
Semrau, Jeremy D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental
Engineering, with tenure
Tilbury, Dawn M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with
tenure
Umstadter, Donald P., from Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences,
without tenure, to Associate Professor, with tenure
Vlahopoulos, Nickolas, from Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, without
tenure, to Associate Professor, with tenure
Wellman, Michael P., from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Law School
Ben-Shahar, Omri, from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor, with tenure
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Adams, Fred C., from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Bardakjian, Kevork B., from Associate Professor of Armenian Languages and Literatures, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure, and from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Bardwell, James, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure


287




June Meeting, 2001


Barvinok, Alexandre I., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Beddor, Patrice S., from Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Bell, Betty Louise, from Assistant Professor of English, Women's Studies, and American Culture to
Associate Professor of English, with tenure, Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure
Bernstein, Gary M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure
Binetti, Vincenzo A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure
Canary, Richard D., from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Caron, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, with tenure
Carpenter, Daniel P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Conrad, Brian D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Evrard, August E., from Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Feldman, Martha S., from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor of Public Policy, with
tenure, to Professor, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Fomin, Sergey, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Gonzalez, Richard, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Gregerson, Linda, from Associate Professor of English, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Hall, Richard L., from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor of Public Policy, without
tenure, to Professor, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Hanson, Gordon H., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor of Business Economics,
with tenure, to Professor, with tenure, School of Business Administration
Herrmann, Anne C., from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure, and from Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Lee, Fiona, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Lindsay, Robert K., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Maddock, Janine R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
McKay, Timothy A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Montoya, Maria E., from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure
Mueggler, Erik A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Murphy, Susan A., from Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
O'Foighil, Diarmaid, from Assistant Professor of Biology and Assistant Curator, Museum of Geology, to
Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Associate Curator, Museum of Zoology
Porter, James I., from Associate Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with tenure, to
Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Studies, with tenure
Schonle, Andreas Xavier, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and
Literatures, with tenure
Schiefelbein, John W. Jr., from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Schulenberg, John E., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Sears, Elizabeth L., from Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Seifert, Colleen, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Smith, Karen, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Smith, Richard Caindida, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Traub, Valerie J., from Associate Professor of English, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Ybarra, Oscar, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Medical School
Antonuk, Larry E., from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Beck, James M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Beer, David G., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Camper, Sally Ann, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Professor, without
tenure
Castle, Valerie P., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Chervin, Ronald D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Chey, William D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Day, Mark L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure


288




June Meeting, 2001


Dickinson, Chris J., from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Fearon, Eric R., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure,
from Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure, and
from Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Ghaziuddin, Neera, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Goold, Susan D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Gruppen, Larry D., from Professor of Medical Education, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Isom, Lori L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Keller, Evan T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Comparative Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure
Kilbourn, Michael R., from Professor of Radiology, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Kirschner, Denise E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
Koeppe, Robert A., from Professor of Radiology, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Levine, Simon P., from Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Ljungman, Mats E. D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with
tenure
L6pez, Juan F., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Ludomirsky, Achiau, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Macoska, Jill A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Malow, Beth Ann, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Merion, Robert Mark, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Metzger, Joseph M., from Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure, and
from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Professor, without tenure
Middlebrooks, John C., from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Moscucci, Mauro, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Moseley, Richard H., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Nasr, Samya Z., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Nghiem, Hanh Vu, from Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with
tenure
Nunez, Gabriel, from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Ojo, Akinlolu O., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Osawa, Yoichi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Pagani, Francis D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Punch, Jeffrey D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Ratanatharathorn, Voravit, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Reed, Barbara D., from Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Rubin, Mark A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Sandler, Howard M., from Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Shewach, Donna S., from Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Sondak, Vernon K., from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Stern, Susan A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure
Strouse, Peter J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Swanson, Joel A., from Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, to Professor,
with tenure
Taussig, Ronald, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Telesnitsky, Alice, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
Terrell, Jeffrey E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Thompson, B. Gregory Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Warschausky, Seth A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, with tenure
Zimmerman, Ellen Mary, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure


289




June Meeting, 2001


School of Music
Andonyadis, Nephelie M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with
tenure
Chambers, Evan K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure
DeYoung, Glenn W., Jr., from Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Jennings, Andrew W., from Associate Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Kibbie, James W., from Associate Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Moore, Michael R., from Associate Professor of Environmental Economics, without tenure, to Associate
Professor, with tenure
School of Nursing
Algase, Donna, from Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Guthrie, Barbara J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Williams, Reg A., from Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Ascione, Frank J., from Associate Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Shimp, Leslie A., from Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Public Health
Lantz, Paula M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with
tenure
Loch-Caruso, Rita, from Associate Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Robins, Thomas G., from Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, to Professor, with
tenure
Zimmerman, Marc A., from Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, to
Professor, with tenure, School of Public Health, and from Associate Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, to Professor, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Lin, Ann Chih, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure
Terrell, Katherine, from Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
School of Social Work
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Jacobs, Claude, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Behavioral Sciences, with tenure
Pollard, Deborah Smith, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language, Literature,
and Humanities, with tenure
Samoriski, Jan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Communications, with tenure
Travis, William, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science
Zhu, Qiang, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with
tenure
University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management
Ahuvia, Aaron, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Management Studies, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Foster, Thomas C., from Associate Professor of English, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Jones, Kimberly R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre and Dance, with tenure
Parfitt, Bruce D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
University of Michigan-Flint School of Education and Human Services
Woehrle, Kathleen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure


290




June Meeting, 2001


University of Michigan-Flint School of Management
Mehdian, Seyed M., from Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with
tenure
Raman, Kalyan, from Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, to Professor, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Ackerman, Mark S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, and
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of
Engineering, May 1, 2001
Agho, Augustine O., Ph.D., Professor of Health Care, with tenure, and Dean, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, July 15, 2001-June 30, 2006
Ahuja, Gautam, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001
Bierbaum, Rosina M., Ph.D., Professor of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy, with tenure, and
Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, October 1, 2001
Cesnik, Carlos E. S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001
Dolan, Robert J., Ph.D., Gilbert and Ruth Whitaker Professor of Business Administration, Professor of
Marketing, with tenure, and Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2001
Gannett, Diana, Ph.D., Professor of Music (string bass), School of Music, September 1, 2001
Haithcock, Michael L., M.A., Professor of Music (wind conducting), School of Music, September 1, 2001
Hayes, Daniel F., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Kieffer, John, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001
King, Nancy Ambrose, B.M.A., Associate Professor of Music (oboe), School of Music, September 1,
2001
Lastoskie, Christian M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001
Lie, John, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Pelton, Carmen, B.A., Associate Professor of Music (voice), School of Music, September 1, 2001
Strickland, Roy J., M.Arch., Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2001
Tessler, Mark A., Ph.D., Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Wang, Shaomeng, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Wilkinson, J. Erby, D.V.M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Comparative Pathology, with tenure, Unit for
Laboratory Animal Medicine, and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical
School, June 1, 2001
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Foran, Michael F., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 2001
Luethge, Denise Johnson, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Meyh6fer, Edgar, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001
Moore, Kathleen A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1, 2001
Van Sickle, Frederick M., Ph.D., Assistant Dean for Development and External Relations, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Vice President for Development, Office of the Vice
President for Development, July 11, 2001
Zaborowska, Magdalena J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of American Culture and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001


291




June Meeting, 2001


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, Virginia R., Vice Chancellor for Student Services and Enrollment Management, UM-Flint,
September 1, 2001
Aspnes, Lynne A., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Music, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Bailey, Charles W., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Social
Work, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Blouin, Francis X. Jr., Director, Bentley Historical Library, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Dunlop, Charles E. M., Chair, Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,, July
1-December 31, 2001
Gingerich, Philip D., Director, Museum of Paleontology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Gluck, Peter R., Chair, Department of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July
1-December 31, 2001
Hoft, Margret, Chair, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Hughes, Paul, Chair, Department of Humanities, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Knysh, Alexander D., Chair, Department of Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Kotowicz, William E., Dean, School of Dentistry, July 1-December 31, 2002
Kottak, Conrad P., Chair, Department of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Biological Sciences and Life Sciences Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Rabe, Barry G., Interim Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, July 1-October 31, 2001
Rose, Homer C. Jr., Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Simpson, Robert L., Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, UM-Dearborn Chancellor's
Office, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Talbot, Frederick B., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2002
Toman, Jindrich, Chair, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Traugott, Michael W., Chair, Department of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Watts, Charles M., Chief of Clinical Affairs, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, July 1,
2001-June 30, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akingbehin, Kiumi, Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, also appointed Acting
Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering
and Computer Science, January 1-June 30, 2001
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Bolton, Mark W., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Music
and Art, UM-Flint College of Music and Art, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Bright, Charles C., Lecturer III in History, also appointed Interim Director, Residential College, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Brown, Richard B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also
appointed Interim Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, July 1, 2001
Caminker, Evan H., Professor of Law, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs,
Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003
Carey, Thomas E., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2001
DeYoung, Glenn W. Jr., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Dance, School of Music, January 1-May 31, 2002


292




June Meeting, 2001


Goldberg, Deborah E., Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June
30, 2004
Groat, Linda N., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, also appointed Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Hakam, Imane A., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department
of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, February 23, 2001-June 30, 2002
Hensinger, Robert N., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Hoff, Julian T., Richard E. Schneider Professor of Neurosurgery and Professor of Surgery, with tenure,
also appointed Chair, Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Kahn, Margaret F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-June 30, 2002
Kileny, Paul R., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, May 18, 2001
Milroy, Ann Lesley, Hans Kurath Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Montie, James E., George F. and Nancy P. Valassis Professor of Urologic Oncology, transferred from
Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of Urology, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Neville-Andrews, John, Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, also appointed Interim
Chair, Department of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, January 1-May 31, 2002
Pichersky, Eran, Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Pohl, Joanne M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Community Partnerships, School of Nursing, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Rasmussen, Paul G., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
also appointed Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Repic, Randall L., Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Science, with tenure, also appointed Interim
Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Schilling, Kenneth E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department
of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1-December 31, 2001
Sears, Elizabeth L., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Simkani, Mehrdad, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Straub, Richard O., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Behavioral
Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Talalay, Lauren E., Associate Curator, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, also appointed Acting Director,
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2001-August 31, 2002
Thomspon, Levi T. Jr., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean,
Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003
Uribe-Ahumada, Alejandro, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Wheeler, John R. C., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
also appointed Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical
School, June 22, 2001
APPROVAL OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, extension of public service leave, May 1, 2001-April 30, 2002


293




June Meeting, 2001


Cho, Eun-su, Assistant Professor of Korean Language and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, extension of duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, Medical School, extension of public service leave, April 4, 2001-April 3, 2002
Islam, Mohammed, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, extension of personal leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Langmore, John P., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of personal leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Nabel, Gary J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
without tenure, Medical School, extension of public service leave, April 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
Park, Albert F., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extension
of research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Somanathan, Rohini, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
To, Cho-yee, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, extension of research leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Academic Administration Positions
Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education, Medical School, June 1, 2001
Associate Vice President for Development, Office of the Vice President for Development, June 1, 2001
Establishing Named Prokssorships
Ruth Dow Doan Professorship in Biologic Nanotechnology, Medical School, May 18, 2001
William D. Hamilton Collegiate Professorship in Complex Systems, School of Information, September 1,
2001
Renaming Professorships
From the Max McGraw Professorship in Corporate and Environmental Management to the Max McGraw
Professorship in Sustainable Enterprise, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2001
From the Pharmacia & Upjohn Foundation Research Professorship in Biostatistics to the Pharmacia
Research Professorship in Biostatistics, School of Public Health, May 1, 2001
From the Merwin H. Waterman Collegiate Professor in Finance to the Merwin H. Waterman Collegiate
Professor in Business Administration, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2001
Naming Collegiate Professorship
Elliot S. Valenstein Collegiate Professorship in Behavioral Neuroscience, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Angur, Madhukar G., David M. French Professor, UM-Flint School of Management, July 1, 2001-June
30, 2003
Baker, James R. Jr., Ruth Dow Doan Professorship in Biologic Nanotechnology, Medical School,
May 18, 2001-May 17, 2006
Boehnke, Michael Lee, Pharmacia Research Professor in Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
May 1, 2001-April 30, 2006
Carson, Paul L., Collegiate Professor of Basic Radiological Sciences, Medical School,
May 18, 2001-May 17, 2006
Dixon, Jack E., Minor J. Coon Collegiate Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Fogel, Robert D., Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professorship in Fungal Taxonomy,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Katz, Martin E., Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professor of Music in Piano, School of Music,
June 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Kerr, Philip, Claribel Baird Halstead Professor, School of Music, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004


294




June Meeting, 2001


Miller, Josef M., Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professor of Communication Disorders, Medical School,
February 16, 2001-February 15, 2005
Paul, Ara G., Hans W. Vahlteich Professor of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, July 1, 2001-June
30, 2003
Pearlman, Mark D., S. Jan Behrman Collegiate Professor of Reproductive Medicine, Medical School, July
1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Pena, Manuel, University of Michigan Presidential Professor of Latino/a Studies, Office of the Provost
and Vice President for Academic Affairs, September 1-December 30, 2001
Sand, Jordan, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Scott, Rebecca J., Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2001
Vinovskis, Maris A., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Reappointments to Established Professorships
Crocker, Keith J., Waldo O. Hildebrand Professor in Risk Management and Insurance, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Dutton, Jane E., William Russell Kelly Professorship in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Fornaess, John E., Frederick W. Gehring Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Julius, Stevo, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor of Hypertension, Medical School, May 1,
2001-December 31, 2004
Kinder, Donald R., Philip E. Converse Collegiate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Owyang, Chung, H. Marvin Pollard Collegiate Professor of Gastroenterology, Medical School, December
1, 2000-November 30, 2005
Quinn, Robert E., Margaret Elliot Tracy Collegiate Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Siedel, George J. III, Williamson Family Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Slemrod, Joel B., Paul W. McCracken Professor of Business Economics, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Soper, E. Philip, James V. Campbell Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Svejnar, Jan, Everett E. Berg Professor of Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Thakor, Anjan V., Edward J. Frey Professor of Banking and Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Weiss, Janet A., Mary C. Bromage Collegiate Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Weiss, Stephen J., E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and Oncology,
Medical School, November 15, 2000-November 14, 2005
Westen, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Other Transactions
Bloom, Bradley Roger, Associate Dean for Administrative Affairs, School of Music, May 1, 2001-April 30,
2006
Bloom, David A., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Cahill, Thomas J., Vice Chancellor for Administration, UM-Flint Chancellor's Office, July 1, 2001
Carpenter, James E., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Chandler, William F., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Cooney, Kathleen A., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Ellis, James H., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Faerber, Gary J., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Goldstein, Steven A., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001


295




June Meeting, 2001


Goulet, James A., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Graziano, Gregory P., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Greenberg, Harry S., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Haig, Andrew J., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Louis, Dean S., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Lypson, Monica L., Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Matthews, Larry S., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
McGillicuddy, John E., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
McGuire, Edward J., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Muraszko, Karin M., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Ohl, Dana A., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Pienta, Kenneth J., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Robinson, Paul A., University Registrar, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic
Affairs, July 1, 2001
Sanda, Martin G., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Smith, David C., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Trobe, Jonathan, Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Wojtys, Edward M. Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Wolf, J. Stuart Jr., Transfer of Faculty Appointments and Tenure from the Department of Surgery to the
Department of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Interim Appointment Approval The Regents authorized the president or the
provost and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such interim
appointments and/or changes as become necessary from May 1-31, 2001.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Dandekar, Hemalata, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice James C. Snyder, term expired
Fishman, Robert L., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice James A. Chaffers, term expired
Levine, Jonathan, July 1-December 31, 2001, vice Robert Marans, unable to serve
School of Art and Design Executive Committee
Takahara, Takeshi, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Alfred F. Hinton, term expired
Zirbes, Georgette M., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Edward West, term expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Davis, Gerald F., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Jane E. Dutton, term expired
Gordon, Michael D., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Douglas J. Skinner, term expired
Narayanan, M. P., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Judith Spencer Olson, term expired
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Mistretta, Charlotte M., November 1, 2001-October 31, 2004, vice G. Rex Holland, term expired
Taylor, George W., November 1, 2001-October 31, 2004, vice Richard A. Johnson, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Heller, Donald E., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Marvin W. Peterson, term expired
Mirel, Jeffrey E., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Deborah Loewenberg Ball, term expired


296




June Meeting, 2001


College of Engineering Executive Committee
Mazumder, Jyotirmoy, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Yoram Koren, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Gaither, Caroline A., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Sherman A. James, term expired
Mannheim, Bruce, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Ruth E. Dunkle, term expired
Marx, Ronald W., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002, vice Bruce Mannheim, on sabbatical leave
Savage, Phillip E., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Mary Anne Carroll, term expired
Wineman, Jean D., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Celeste A. Brusati, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Borer, Katarina T., reappointed, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Maloy, Bernard Patrick, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Richard A. Wolfe, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Gikandi, Simon E., Humanities Division, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice John R. Knott Jr.,
term expired
House, James S., Social Science Division, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Sonya O. Rose, term
expired
Vinovskis, Maris A., September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002, vice Jill B. Becker, sabbatical leave
Medical School Executive Committee
Greden, John F., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Kevin K. Tremper, term expired
Gumucio, Deborah L., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Thomas D. Gelehrter, term expired
School of Music Executive Committee
Blackstone, Jerry O., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002, vice H. Robert Reynolds, retirement furlough
Shipps, Stephen B., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Deborah S. Chodacki, term expired
Wagner, R. Brent, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Glenn W. DeYoung Jr., term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barkauskas, Violet H., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002, vice Bonnie M. Hagerty, term expired
Guthrie, Barbara J., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002, vice Reg A. Williams, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Fleisher, David, June 1-November 30, 2001, vice Victor C. M. Yang, sabbatical leave
Woodard, Ronald W., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice George Garcia, term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Lin, Xihong, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Jeffrey A. Alexander, term expired
Wheeler, John R. C., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Robert A. Wolfe, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Blank, Rebecca M., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Janet A. Weiss, term expired
King, John L., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Jeffrey S. Lehman, term expired
Svejnar, Jan, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Carl P. Simon, term expired
Distinguised Alumni Service Award Selection Committee
Marshall, J. Stephen, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002, vice Geraldine Bledsoe Ford, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., tenured representative, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice Diane K.
Vinokur, term expired
Ruffolo, Mary C., non-tenured representative, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003, vice John M.
Wallace, term expired
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Executive Committee
Levinsohn, James A., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Kathryn Mary Dominguez, term expired
Lin, Ann Chih, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003, vice Carl P. Simon, term expired
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
James, David A., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice John A. Gillespie, term expired
Swift, Dan J., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004, vice James E. Gruber, term expired
Zhao, Jing, July 1, 2001-August 31, 2003, vice Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, unable to serve
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
Collins, Rudolph V., July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Velma Allen, term expired
Gonzales, Lee, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Christopher J. Flores, term expired
Keep, Paul, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Elizabeth Kirkpatrick, term expired
Mansour, Furhut Raja, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Fritz Kirkpatrick, term expired
Smith, Ernestine, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Marigowda Nagaraju, term expired


297




June Meeting, 2001


Zick, David, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005, vice Roger D. Samuel, term expired
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Berger, Michael, reappointed, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Davlantes, Alex, reappointed, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Garland, Brian, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Gonzales, Lee, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Foren, John, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Saunders, Kathy, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Silverman, Ronald, reappointed, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Terwilliger, Leatha, reappointed, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Thomas, Mark, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Thum, Maureen, reappointed, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Turner, Clifton, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Warner, Sara, new appointment, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Amirdjanova, Anna, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Bichakjian, Christopher K., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Butler, J. Russell, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1-August 31, 2001
Carlos, Ruth J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Cook, James W. Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Cotera, Maria E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Latino Studies and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Dean, Margaret L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Dennis, Robert G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Diehl, Kathleen M., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Galifianakis, Sophia, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-December 31, 2001
Gariepy, Cheryl E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Graham, Paul R., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gruenenfelder, Jennifer L., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Gull, Maria E., M.A., Lecturer I in Swedish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30,
2001
Hansen, Matthew D., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1,
2001-June 30, 2002
Harris, David E., Ph.D., Clinical Professor II of Education, School of Education, July 16, 2001-August 1,
2006
Heinlein, Julianne, M.Sc., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June
23-August 18, 2001
Horn, Daniel B., M.A., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Hutchins, Scott M., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Jensen, Viviane C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Kantor, Virginia W., M.M., Lecturer in Chamber Music, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kaur, Harjeet, M.B.B.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, March 5, 2001-March 4, 2002


298




June Meeting, 2001


Kendall, Richard W., D.O., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 9,
2001-July 8, 2002
Kienstra, Matthew A., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Krueger, David A., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1,
2001-June 30, 2002
LaCerna, Mario D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, May 1,
2001-April 30, 2002
Langdon, Gabrielle, Ph.D., Lecturer II in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Lavaque-Manty, Mika T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Mahalingam, Ramaswami, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
McDonald, Neville J., B.D.S., Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, April 15,
2001-April 14, 2008
Mitchell, Audrey L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, April 1,
2001-August 31, 2002
Monhian, Nathan, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Nadkarni, Jeanne S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1-August 31, 2001
Najita, Susan Y., Assistant Professor of American Culture Program and Assistant Professor of English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2004
Neiva, Gisele DeFaria, M.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, April 1-June 30, 2001
Norton, Sean P., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Pulizzotto, Ian F., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30,
2001
Reddy, Pavan R., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Reed, Joseph D., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Remington, Tami L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, May 14,
2001-June 30, 2004
Sanok, Catherine, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Shammout, Brad A., D.O., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Swanson, Fritz G., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Thompson, Robert C., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, May 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Valetine, John B., M.S.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, March 1, 2001-February 28, 2004
Wang, Steven J., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Weitz, Steven A., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Whissel, Kristen M., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Wilhelmsen, Cynthia A., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-July 31, 2001
Williams, Clyde R., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, August 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aikens, James E., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Psychiatry, Medical School, March 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
Ashe, Arthur J. III., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Bailey, Janet, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, April 1,
2001-August 31, 2002
Brown, Randall W., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2001


299




June Meeting, 2001


Charpie, John R., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Chen, Zhan, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Cicciarelli, Louis A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, also appointed Lecturer I in
Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31,
2001
Cooper, George H., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, also appointed Lecturer I in
Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31,
2001
Dean, Carolyn A., Lecturer II in Mathematics, also appointed Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies
Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Giordano, Thomas J., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pathology, Medical
School, September 1, 2001
Guo, Lingjie J., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, January
1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Hecht, Gabrielle, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Associate Chair, Department
of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Hymans, Saul H., from Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, with tenure, to
Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2001
Kanicki, Jerzy, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also appointed
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2001
Khargonekar, Pramod P., from Claude E. Shannon Professor of Engineering Science, Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science to Claude E. Shannon Professor of Engineering Science and Professor of
Electrical and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, July 1, 2001
Kurabayashi, Katsuo, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, also appointed Assistant Professor
of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2001-May 31,
2003
Matzger, Adam J., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2000-May 31, 2003
Neal, Charles R. Jr., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Reynolds, Christopher M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Rushton, Jerry L., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also appointed Lecturer in
Psychiatry, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2001
Stanley, Rachel M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Emergency Medicine, also appointed Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, April 1,
2001-March 31, 2002
Takayama, Shuichi, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS OF CLINICAL
AND PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTIST
Effective September 1, 2001
Billy, Edward J., from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
Borenstein, Johann, from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Mechanical Engineering,
College of Engineering
Chenoweth, Carol E., from Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public
Health
Clarke, John T., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering
Clauer, Calvin R., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering


300




June Meeting, 2001


Combi, Michael R., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering
Dolan, David F., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Medical
School
Eber, Robert M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Dentistry,
School of Dentistry
Fine, Paul L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Finholt, Thomas A., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, School of
Information
Finn, William G., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pathology,
Medical School
Flannagan, Michael J., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Gelb, Douglas J., from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Neurology, Medical
School
Glick, Rachel L., from Associate Dean and Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry to Associate Dean
and Clinical Associate Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School
Golembiewski, Julie A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy
Jacobson, Jon A., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Radiology,
Medical School
Keep, Richard F., from Associate Professor of Physiology, without tenure, and Senior Associate Research
Scientist to Associate Professor of Physiology, without tenure, and Senior Research Scientist,
Medical School
Kozyra, Janet U., from Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering
Lash, Robert W., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Michael, Claire W., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Pathology,
Medical School
Murphy, Susan A., from Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Senior Associate Research Scientist, Institute for Social Research, to Associate
Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Senior
Research Scientist, Institute for Social Research
Naughton, Norah N., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Anesthesiology and from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Rice, Judith L., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of Performing Arts,
School of Music
Schulenberg, John E. from Senior Associate Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for
Social Research, Associate Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, and
Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to
Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, Associate
Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Streetman, Daniel S., from Clinical Instructor II to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pharmacy, College of
Pharmacy
Teasley, Stephanie D., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist,
Collaboratory for Research on Electronic Work
Tonner, Grace C., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Law, Law School
Wilkerson, William M., from Clinical Assistant Professor II to Clinical Associate Professor II of
Emergency Medicine, Medical School
Zazove, Philip, from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Family Medicine, Medical
School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aminoff, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August
31, 2002
Becker, Marjorie C., Assistant Professor Emerita of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002


301




June Meeting, 2001


Blinder, Seymour M., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
1-June 30, 2001
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Chethik, Morton, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2001
Cole, Theodore M., Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July
18, 2001-July 17, 2002
Dekker, Eugene E., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, September 1,
2001-August 31, 2002
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Art,
Sciences, and Letters, May 1-December 31, 2001
Greenberg, G. Robert, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June
30, 2002
Haessler, Robert W., Associate Professor Emeritus of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, June 1-August 31, 2001
Koran, Andrew III, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2001-April 30,
2002
Ladu, Bert N. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Larimore, Ann E., Professor Emerita of Geography and Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor Emeritus of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1-August 31, 2001
Loos, Paul J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Lorey, Robert E., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Milne, James S., Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June
1-July 31, 2001
Mohr, Lawrence B., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, January
1-December 31, 2001
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Sherman, James H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December
31, 2001
Sisson, James C., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Stern, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, January
1-December 31, 2001
Weg, John G., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Achen, Christopher H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Adams, Julian P., Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Allen, James W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching assignment,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Axelrod, Daniel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Axsom, Richard H., Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Binetti, Vincenzo A., Assistant Professor of Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Bailey, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


302




June Meeting, 2001


Becker, Judith O., Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music and Professor of Music (Musicology),
with tenure, School of Music, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001, and research
leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Ben-Shahar, Omri, Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, and Assistant Professor of Economics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Berman, Paul R., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Birmingham, William P., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, Associate Professor of Information, without tenure, School of
Information, and Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Brater, Enoch, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Theatre, without tenure, School of Dance, duty off campus, January
1-May 31, 2002
Bretz, Michael, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31,2002
Carroll, Mary A., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College
of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Caruso, Rita L., Associate Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Caulfield, Sueann, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of History, without tenure, Residential College, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Chambers, L. Ross, Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor of French and Comparative
Literature and Professor of French and Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Chick, Stephen E., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Choe, Hae Mi, Clinical Instructor II in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, extended sick leave, January
17-March 16, 2001
Clark, Noreen M., Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health and Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public Health, administrative leave, April
1-October 31, 2001
Clark, Sherman J., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Clarke, Roy, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-December 31, 2002
Cole, Elizabeth R., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Collins, Derek B., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
De Ferranti, Hugh B. Z., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, and Assistant
Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31,2001
Delanghe, Gay A., Professor of Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Dance, School of Music,
and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Denver, Robert J., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Dierker, Steven B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Dignas, Beate D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2001, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Dixon, Travis L., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Drayson, S. Roland, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2002
Eccles, Jacquelynne S., Wilbert J. McKeachie Collegiate Professor of Psychology, Professor of
Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2000-May 31, 2001
Eley, Geoffrey H., Sylvia Thrupp Collegiate Professor of Comparative History and Professor of History,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December
31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002


303




June Meeting, 2001


Eliav, Yaron Z., Assistant Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
England, Anthony W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Fox, Merritt B., Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching assignment, September 1-December 31, 2001, and sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Foxman, Betsy, Professor to Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September-May 31, 2001
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Fredricksen, Erik, Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Theatre and
Drama, School of Music, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Freedman, Jonathan E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Fulton, William E., M. S. Keeler II Professor of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gay, Tamara L., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, extended sick leave,
March 26-April 7, 2001
Gelman, Susan A., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gere, Anne R., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of English, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2001
Greene, Arthur R., Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Gregerson, Linda K., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gross, Samuel R., Thomas G. and Mabel Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Haddad, George I., Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Haken, Randall K. Ten, Professor of Radiation Therapy, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate
Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, October 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
Hammer, Peter J., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2001
Haywood, Lorna M., Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Hedstrom, Margaret L., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Hegyi, Dennis J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Heller, Michael A., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December
31, 2001
Hiebert, Elfrieda H., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Hinton, Alfred F., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave, January 1,
2001-May 31, 2002
Holl, Mark M. Banaszak, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Hu, Shixin J., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Hymans, Saul H., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Irvine, Judith T., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Ito, Ken K., Associate Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


304




June Meeting, 2001


Jacobs, Stanley J., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of
Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Kamisar, Yale, Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kauper, Thomas E., Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kelly, Raymond C., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Khargonekar, Pramod P., Claude E. Shannon Professor of Engineering Science and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, personal leave, September
1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kopelman, Raoul, Kasimir Fajans Professor of Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics and Professor of
Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1,
2001-May 31, 2002
Krause, Christine W., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, March
5-May 27, 2001
Krimm, Samuel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Kurachi, Kotoku, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, scholarly activity leave,
April 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
Lee, Hei-Wai, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Levinson, Julian A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of English, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lewis, Robert E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Lohr, Lawrence L. Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Luke, Barbara J., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick
leave, March 14-April 22, 2001
Lunn, Joe H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and sabbatical leave, January
1-April 30, 2002
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2002
Malamud, Deborah C., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, outside teaching assignment, January
1-May 31, 2002
Mannheim, Bruce, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May
31, 2002
Marsh, E. Neal G., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Mattis, Jacqueline S., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Mazian, Florence I., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, disability leave, October 9, 2001-March 31, 2007
McGill, Anthony D., Assistant Professor of Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
personal leave, October 9, 2001-May 31, 2002
Mead, Andrew W., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2002
Meier, Peter G., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Miller, William I., Thomas G. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching assignment, September 1-December 31, 2001
Morantz-Sanchez, Regina, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Moss, Thylias, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2002


305




June Meeting, 2001


Mowbray, Carol T., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Associate
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Neal, Homer A., Samuel A. Goudsmit Distinguished University Professor of Physics and Professor of
Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Oakley, Deborah J., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, retirement furlough, September
1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Park, Albert F., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Pierce, Lori J., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
July 1-December 31, 2001
Pietrykowski, Bruce A., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Pintrich, Paul R., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Quint, Douglas J., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, May 1-July 31,
2001
Rabe, Barry G., Professor of Environmental Policy, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Ramirez-Christensen, E., Associate Professor of Japanese Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Rastalsky, Hartmut M., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Rea, David K., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2002
Reynolds, H. Robert, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of University Bands and Professor of Conducting, with
tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Robertson, Jennifer E., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Rose, Sonya O., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Ross, David 0. Jr., Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Ross, Marc H., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, January 1, 2000-May 31, 2001
Santo-Tomas, Enrique G., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching assignment, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January
1-May 31, 2002
Sarabandi, Kamal, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Sargous, Harry W., Professor of Music (Oboe), with tenure, School of Music, personal leave, September
1, 2001-March 31, 2003
Sension, Roseanne J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Sharf, Robert H., Associate Professor of Buddhist Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Simoni, Mary H., Associate Professor of Music (Music Technology), with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Smith, Patricia K., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Soper, E. Philip, James V. Campbell Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Stanton, Domna C., Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professor and Professor of Romance Languages and
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching
assignment, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Suarez, Lucia M., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


306




June Meeting, 2001


Tandon, Rajiv, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave, May 29-July 27,
2001
Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Mathematics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Traub, Valerie J., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 2001
Vaillant, Derek W. Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Vinovskis, Maris A., A. M. & H. P. Bentley Professor of History, Professor of History, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Webb, Paul W., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Weineck, Silke-Maria, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Weisskopf, Thomas E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Westen, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, February 7-May 31, 2001
Yang, Victor Chi-Min, Albert B. Prescott Professor of Pharmaceutics and Professor of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, sabbatical leave, June 1-November 30, 2001
Young, Ernest P., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Zak, Albin J. III, Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, duty off campus, January
1-May 31, 2002
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on June 2001
Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Science, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2000-April 30, 2001
(previously reported as retirement furlough)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Adkins, Randall S., Assistant Professor of Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, June 30, 2001
Almaguer, Tomas, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Sociology and American
Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Anderson, Shannon W., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration, May 31,
2001
Bagozzi, Richard P., Dwight F. Benton Professor of Marketing and Professor of Behavioral Science in
Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001
Bahti, Timothy H., Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Comparative Literature, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Barks, Debbie L., Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Bee, Sheila S., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Bird, Peter L., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2000
Bloembergen, Wendy E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 30, 2000
Bozoki, Andrea C., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Brandon, Mark E., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Callahan, Timothy K., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Chen, Li-Ling, Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
June 30, 2001
Cleaver, Gerald W., Assistant Professor of Music (Jazz Studies), School of Music, May 31, 2001


307




June Meeting, 2001


Coronel-Molina, Serafin M., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30,
2001
Cresti, Diana M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2000
Curran, Lisa M., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Environmental Biology, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Daniels, J. Yolande, Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2001
Davenport, Linda K., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, April 17, 2001
Dreslinski, Gerald R., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Fader, Darrell J., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dermatology, Medical School, December 31, 2000
Garritty, Thomas A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Giri, Veda N., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2001
Goldberg, Allon, Lecturer in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
August 31, 2001
Goodmurphy, Craig, Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Gordon, Roger H., Reuben Kempf Professor of Economics and Professor of Economics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Grabner-Coronel, Linda L., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30,
2001
Grandison, Kenrick I., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 31, 2001
Gutsch, David E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, May 31, 2001
Hanson, Gordon H., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, June 30, 2001
Holmes, Colin, Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Hunter, Andrea G., Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, May 31, 2001
Israel, Ronen, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31,
2001
Johnson, Mayumi Y. Assistant Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Johnson, Nicole S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2001
Kessinger, Colin C., Assistant Professor of Operations Management, School of Business Administration,
May 31, 2001
Killion, Cheryl M., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2001
Lin, John, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Radiology, Medical School, April 30, 2001
Mannfors, Berit F., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Maxwell, Donald R., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
2000
Maxwell, Robert A., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
McDevitt, Susanne E., Lecturer of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2001
Nabel, Elizabeth G., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2001
Nangia, Rina, Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, May 25, 2001
Newson-Horst, Adele S., Professor of African Studies, with tenure, and Chair, Department of African
Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, June 30, 2001
Nguyen, Bich M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2001
Penner-Hahn, Joan D., Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of
Business Administration, May 31, 2001
Polot, Barton L., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Education, Piano Pedagogy, and Music
Technology), May 31, 2001
Prance, Sarah E., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, May 25, 2001
Raitt, Suzanne, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Reickert, Eileen M., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2000
Ross, Michael L., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Sastry, M. Anjali, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001


308




June Meeting, 2001


Schooler, Gerald J., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
August 31, 2001
Scull, Laura S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2001
Sharma, Pramod K., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, August 1,
2001
Smith, Perry B., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
2000
Sonis, Jeffrey H., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, and Assistant Professor of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, June 19, 2001
Sweeney, John F., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, May 25, 2001
Tapia, James R., Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting and Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting
and Music Education), School of Music, May 31, 2001
Teeple, Scott D., Lecturer in Music, School of Music, May 31, 2001
Tomori, Oladapo T., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, Medical School, March 31, 2001
Tortora, Christina M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Towsley, Ann E., Associate Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
May 31, 2001
Vannan, Mani, Clinical Associate Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 30, 2001
Wald, John J., Clinical Associate Professor II of Neurology, Medical School, April 30, 2001
Warner, M. Dhyanne, Clinical Associate Professor II of Psychiatry, Medical School, June 5, 2001
Welbourne, Theresa M., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001
White, Michelle J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Wolfenzon, Daniel, Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001
Wysocki, Peter D., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001
Yervasi, Carina, Assistant Professor of French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Retired
Aswad, A. Adnan, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, April 30, 2001
Barbarin, Oscar A. III, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Brown, Susan S., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School, July 6,
2001
Carnahan, Brice, Professor of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2001
Christiansen, Richard L., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, December 31, 2000
Crawford, David E., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2001
Cross, John G., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2001
Croxton, Tom A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, May 31, 2001
Ege, Seyhan N., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2001
Fine, Sidney, Andrew Dickson White Professor of History and Professor of History, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Garvin, Charles D., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, May 31, 2001
Gordus, Adon A., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2001
Hanson, Robert D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2001
Higgs, Elton D., Professor of English Language and Literature, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, April 30, 2001
Lapides, Joseph, Lecturer in Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, April 30, 2001
MacDonald, Robert L., Russell N. Dejong Professor of Neurology, Professor of Neurology, with tenure,
and Professor of Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Marsh, William M., Professor of Physical Geography, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, May 31, 2001
Schramm, Gene M., Professor of Semitics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2001
Serr, Carol M., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2001
Shope, Thomas C., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June
30, 2001
Standifer, James A., Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2001


309




June Meeting, 2001


Stevenson, Harold W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2001
Stolz, Benjamin A., Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Storer, Thomas F., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Witke, Charles, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Zald, Mayer N., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of Business
Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2001
Term Completed
Anderson, Mary L., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Anderson, Rebecca, Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 19, 2000
Benson, Heidi P., Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Bredle, Jason M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2001
Bromberg, Kenneth W., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 31, 2001
Childress, Anita G., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Clason, Todd A., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 19, 2000
Cullum-Swan, Betsy, Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Farghaly, Amel A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Feng, Jin, Lecturer II in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Fischer, Claudie D., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Fluhr, Nicole M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature and Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Galien, Patricia J., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Gardiner, Antonia L., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 19, 2000
Gessner, Ingrid S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2001
Getty, Ward D., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
June 30, 2000
Gottschalk, Barbara, Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Gurevich, Yuri, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2001
Harrast, Mark A., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 9, 2001
Leighton, Ian K., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Lubek, Joshua E., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2001
Marcocci, Cristiana, Lecturer I in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Nawid, Senzil, Lecturer II in Persian Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Noorani, Yaseen A., Lecturer II in Classical Arabic and Persian Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Oden, Esra, Lecturer II in Turkish Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Sanchez, Maria V., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2001
Sinno, Neige A., Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Spilvallo, Anna, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 3001
Swabey, Daphne E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2001
Ungar, Lauren R., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2000
Vega-Duran, Raquel, Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Vodosek, Markus, Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Williams, Keoki L., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Young, Irene A., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Zeleznik, W. Scott, Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Zenkov, Dmitry V., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August
31, 2001
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED PERSONNEL APPOINTMENT
Effective June 2001
Sochalski, Julie A., Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, originally approved November
2000


310




June Meeting, 2001


Retirement Memoirs.    Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption 33
retirement memoirs.
A. Adnan Aswad, Ph.D., professor of industrial and manufacturing systems
engineering in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, University of
Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2001, after many
years of faithful and dedicated service.
Professor Aswad received his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering in 1955 from
Robert College in Turkey. He received his M.S. degrees in mechanical engineering
(1961) and industrial engineering (1964) and his Ph.D. degree in industrial engineering
in 1972 from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty as a lecturer in 1965 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1972 and professor in 1983. He served as chair of the Department of
Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering from 1972-83 and was associate
dean of the School of Engineering (now known as the College of Engineering and
Computer Science), from 1983-88.
Professor Aswad has over forty years of professional experience in education,
industry, and as a consultant in the United States and abroad. He was an early and
leading proponent for strengthening manufacturing engineering education. Professor
Aswad is nationally and internationally recognized as a leading authority on quality
function deployment and quality systems. He has published widely and has conducted
research as a visiting scholar in England and Japan.
Professor Aswad was elected as a fellow of the Institute of Industrial Engineers in
1991. Other honors include the Distinguished Faculty Award (1988), Distinguished
Teaching Award (1992), and the Outstanding Service Award (1993). He received a
Distinguished Faculty Award from the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of
State Universities in 1996 and received the Alumni Society's Faculty of the Year Award
in 2000.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming A. Adnan
Aswad professor emeritus of industrial and manufacturing systems engineering.
Oscar A. Barbarin III, Ph.D., professor of social work, School of Social Work,
and professor of psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Barbarin received his A.B. degree from St. Joseph's Seminary College in
1968, his M.A. degree from New York University in 1971, and his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from Rutgers University in 1973 and 1975, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1979 as assistant professor of psychology. He was
named assistant professor of social work in 1984, associate professor in 1985, and
professor in 1991. He was appointed adjunct associate professor of psychology in 1986
and professor of psychology in 1992.
Professor Barbarin's research focused on the development of culturally-sensitive
assessments of psychological disorders in African-American and Latino children. He
worked with the Detroit Department of Human Services' Head Start program to design
and implement a program of universal preventive screening of psychological and social
risks. In South Africa and Uganda, he pursued projects related to culture and children's
mental health, and many of his papers examine the interplay of the social, emotional,
and academic development of African-American children. From 1996 until January
2000, he was the University's executive director of South African Initiatives, working


311




June Meeting, 2001


with students from professional schools interested in research service projects in
southern Africa.
A productive researcher and scholar, Professor Barbarin collaborated on several
books, including Childhood Cancer and the Family: Meeting the Challenge of Stress
and Social Support; Children with Cancer: School Experiences and Views of Parents,
Educators, Adolescents, and Physicians; and Institutional Racism and Community
Competence. He has also published numerous articles in leading professional journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Oscar A.
Barbarin III professor emeritus of social work and professor emeritus of psychology.
Joy Alexander Blouin, senior associate librarian, retired from active faculty status
on January 11, 2001, after twenty-six years of dedicated service.
Ms. Blouin received her B.S. (1967) and M.A. (1969) degrees from Michigan State
University and her A.M.L.S. degree (1977) from the University of Michigan. She
joined the staff of the University Library as a library assistant in 1975. In 1978, she was
appointed assistant curator in the Slide and Photograph Collection in the Department of
History of Art. She was promoted to chief curator of visual resources in 1981. In 1997,
she joined the Media Union Library where she worked to organize and define the visual
collections in support of the School of Art and Design and the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning.
From 1983-96, Ms. Blouin was editor of the Quarterly Bulletin of the Visual
Resources Association (VRA) and was a member of the association's executive
committee. Under her direction, what had been a newsletter was transformed into the
principal forum on issues regarding art history collections in the United States. For her
achievements, the Visual Resources Association presented Ms. Blouin with its
distinguished service award in 1992 and a special Certificate of Appreciation in 1996.
In the Visual Resources Collections, Ms. Blouin and colleagues authored Michigan
Image Cataloging Software (MICS), a pioneering effort to apply standardized
description to access systems for visual resource collections, which has since been
adopted by a number of other universities. With Professor Graham Smith, she helped
launch the annual History of Art Spring Alumni Seminar in Villa Corsi-Salviati in
Florence, Italy, and organized that seminar for its first ten years. Within the Department
of History of Art, Ms. Blouin was instrumental in creating the Michigan Slide
Distribution project, through which the University of Michigan gained access to
principal  art  collections'  photographic  works,  including  those  of  the
Physsen-Bornemezia (Madrid).
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming Joy Alexander
Blouin senior associate librarian emerita.
Susan S. Brown, Ph.D., professor of cell and developmental biology, will retire
from active faculty status on July 6, 2001, after a most productive career as a teacher
and researcher.
A native of Virginia, Professor Brown received her B.A. degree at Randolph
Macon Women's College in 1968 and her Ph.D. degree at Harvard University in 1974.
She then carried out postdoctoral studies at the University of California at San Francisco
and Stanford University before joining the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1980. She was promoted to associate professor in 1987 and professor in
1996. She carried out sabbatical studies at Stanford University in 1987 and in Saclay,
France, in 1996.


312




June Meeting, 2001


A meticulous, innovative scientist, in 1992 Professor Brown made a landmark
discovery that changed the way scientists think about the cellular cytoskeleton. This
completely unexpected result has been important in leading researchers to consider new
paradigms for the interaction of cytoskeletal elements. Her extensive publication record
in the very best, broad-based journals, attests not only to the superb quality of Professor
Brown's research, but more importantly to the fact that she asks fundamental questions
with far-reaching impact in many specialized areas.
Professor Brown excels in medical and graduate teaching. Her principal teaching
responsibility has been in medical histology, a 120 hour course offered annually. She
served as course director of medical histology from 1987-94, during the period when the
Medical School curriculum was substantially revised. The transition from the old to the
new curriculum was made virtually seamless for both staff and students due to her
efforts during that period. She also played a major role in teaching cell biology, a core
course for graduate students in the basic medical sciences, and twice served as course
director.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated service
by naming Susan S. Brown professor emerita of cell and developmental biology.
Brice Carnahan, Ph.D., professor of chemical and metallurgical engineering,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001, following a 41-year career in the
College of Engineering.
Professor Carnahan received his B.S. (1955) and M.S. (1956) degrees from Case
Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1965.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1960 and was promoted to
instructor in 1963, assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1968, and
professor in 1970.
From 1959-65, Professor Carnahan was technical director of the Ford Foundation
project, "Computers in Engineering Education," and associate director of the NSF
project, "Computers in Engineering Design Education." Since 1960, he has been at the
forefront of computer applications and computing for which he has received national
recognition. In 1969, Professor Carnahan co-authored the landmark text Applied
Numerical Methods. He taught courses on numerical and optimization methods,
computer-aided process design, and material and energy balances. For 25 years, he
presented a popular series of evening lectures on computer programming, typically
attended by 300 enthusiastic participants.  For much of his career, he shared
responsibility for digital computing courses for all engineering freshmen, impacting
some 30,000 students. Twenty-seven different editions of his two course texts have
been published.
Nationally, Professor Carnahan was a founding member of the Computer Aids for
Chemical Engineering Education Committee. He is a fellow of the American Institute
of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) and has served as editor of six of its symposium series
volumes since 1993. Among his honors are the AIChE Computing in Chemical
Engineering Award (1980), the Detroit Engineering Society Chemical Engineer of the
Year Award (1987), and the ASEE Chemical Engineering (3M) Lectureship (1991). He
has received the University's Distinguished Service Award (1968), and the College of
Engineering's Class of 1938 E Service Award (1963), Excellence in Teaching Award
(1983), and Excellence in Service Award (1993).


313




June Meeting, 2001


The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Brice Carnahan
professor emeritus of chemical and metallurgical engineering.
Bruce Chin, Ph.D., associate professor of environmental health sciences and
associate research scientist in the Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health,
School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Chin received his B.A. degree from Columbia University in 1955 and his
M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in 1957 and 1961,
respectively. He came to the University of Michigan in 1962 as a postdoctoral trainee.
In 1965, he was named instructor in microbiology in the Department of Dermatology
and in 1971 he became a research associate in the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health (now known as the Department of Environmental Health Sciences) in
the School of Public Health. He was appointed associate professor in 1974. Pursuing
his interest in university administration, in 1982-83 Professor Chin was an American
Council on Education Fellow in Academic Administration. He then served as assistant
dean for academic affairs in the School of Public Health from 1984-87.
Professor Chin's research interests are in the broad area of environmental
toxicology. In particular, he is a highly respected scholar in the areas of risk assessment,
communication, and management, all of which are central to the study and practice of
environmental health. His specific interests lie in the area of toxic chemicals. He has
published papers on a number of such chemicals and his expertise has been widely
sought as a consultant in risk assessment studies for specific chemicals.
A committed and excellent teacher, within the Department of Environmental
Health Sciences, Professor Chin has taught environmental carcinogenesis, risk
evaluation and management, microbial ecology, cell chemistry and function, and
environmental and occupational toxicology.  He was able to bring a powerful
environmental health practitioner's perspective to these difficult subjects, and he
consistently received high praise from his students.
The Regents salute this outstanding scholar by naming Bruce Chin associate
professor emeritus of environmental health sciences and associate research scientist
emeritus.
Richard L. Christiansen, D.D.S., Ph.D, professor of dentistry and former dean,
School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Dr. Christiansen received his D.D.S. degree from the University of Iowa in 1959,
his M.S.D. degree from Indiana University in 1964, and his Ph.D. degree in physiology
from the University of Minnesota in 1970. From 1970-82, he held a number of
positions at the National Institute of Dental Research, National Institutes of Health,
including program officer of the developmental biology and oral-facial anomalies
program, chief of the craniofacial anomalies program branch, and associate director of
extramural programs. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School of
Dentistry in 1982 as dean and professor of dentistry and served as dean until 1987.
During this time, he also served as director of the school's W. K. Kellogg Foundation
Institute for Graduate and Postgraduate Dentistry.
Dr. Christiansen has been an active participant in the department's teaching and
clinical activity in the specialty of orthodontics.  He has served on a number of
departmental, school, and University committees and was director of the School of
Dentistry's postgraduate program. He participated in the University's mentorship program


314




June Meeting, 2001


and served on the governing board of the International Institute and on the Senate
Assembly.
During his tenure as dean, Dr. Christiansen initiated relationships with nine foreign
schools of oral health. He was involved in the establishment of the International Union
of Schools of Oral Health in 1985. He is a member of numerous professional
organizations and is also a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Sigma Xi. In June
2000, Dr. Christiansen was awarded an honorary doctorate degree from Nippon Dental
University, Tokyo, Japan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health science educator by naming
Richard L. Christiansen professor emeritus of dentistry and dean emeritus.
Jane Wilson Coon, D.N.S., R.N., assistant professor of nursing in the School of
Nursing, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000, after 14 years of
service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Coon received her B.S.N. degree from the University of Michigan in
1964, her M.S. degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1967, and her
D.N.S. degree from the University of California at San Francisco in 1983. She first
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1967 as a lecturer in the School of Nursing
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1969. From 1970-71, she was assistant to
the dean. From 1971-83, Professor Coon served on the faculty of the University of
Toronto. She returned to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1986.
Professor Coon has been the coordinator of the classes "Client Care Management
in Health Care Systems" and "Professional Nursing Practice" from 1992 until her
retirement. She has also been active on numerous University faculty committees and
student thesis projects. She has made numerous presentations, has done extensive
research on cardiac issues, and has authored many books and journal articles. She
currently has two research projects in progress: "A Surgical Outcomes Study at the
University of Michigan Medical Center" and "Treatment of Early Pressure Ulcers in
Critically Ill Patients," funded by 3M Corporation.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jane Wilson Coon
assistant professor emerita of nursing.
David E. Crawford, Ph.D., professor of music, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Crawford received his B.A. and M.A. degrees, in 1961 and 1964,
respectively, from the University of Kansas and his Ph.D. degree in 1967 from the
University of Illinois. He joined the University of Michigan School of Music faculty as
an instructor in 1967 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1969, associate
professor in 1971, and professor in 1977. He served as associate dean for undergraduate
studies from 1978-84 and 1987-93 and chair of the Department of Musicology from
1993-99.
Professor Crawford's research areas have mainly involved Renaissance source
studies and Renaissance liturgies, although he has also published in opera, computer
applications for musicology, and American music. In addition to having published 40
musicological articles and reviews, he is the author of Vespers Polyphony at Modena's
Cathedral in the First Half of the Sixteenth Century (1967); Sixteenth-Century
Choirbooks in the Archivio Capitolare at Casale Monferrato (1975); Francesco
Cellavenia, Collected Works (1978); The Anonymous Compendium Musices: Venetiis,
1499-1597 (a critical edition) (1985); and Gaspar de Albertis' Sixteenth-Century


315




June Meeting, 2001


Choirbooks at Bergamo, co-authored with Scott Messing (1994). Of special importance
is his "Renaissance Liturgical Imprints: A Census," a database consisting of more than
13,400 books and one of the first world-wide web applications in musicology. He has
received research fellowships from the American Council of Learned Societies and his
research has been supported by the Gladys Delmas Foundation, the American
Philosophical Society, and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming David E. Crawford
professor emeritus of music.
Tom A. Croxton, J.D., professor of social work, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Croxton received his B.A. degree from Miami University in 1953, and
his LL.B., M.S.W., and J.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1958, 1960,
and 1968, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan School of Social Work as
an assistant professor in 1964 and was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and
professor in 1975. He served as acting associate dean from 1976-77 and in 1981 he
took on the additional responsibility of director of admissions, a position he held for
four years.
Professor Croxton's major professional interests involved criminal and juvenile
justice systems; confidentiality, privacy and privileged communications; mental health
law; law and social work; the child, the family, and the law; and social work ethics. His
research focused on law and social work in the practice areas of child welfare, mental
and physical health, education, child custody, and juvenile justice. Recent areas of
interest include the future of the juvenile justice system and social work standards of
practice. The latter involves state and national surveys on clinical social work practices
and beliefs.  He has presented papers on "Protecting the Rights of the Child,"
"Community Related Correctional Programs" (with H. Johnson), "Client Participation
and Client Rights," and "Privileged Communications and the Social Worker." He has
also published in such journals as the Journal of Family Law, Child Welfare, the
Journal of Juvenile Law, Urban Crime and Urban Planning, the Journal of Teaching in
Social Work, and Social Work.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Tom A.
Croxton professor emeritus of social work.
Seyhan N. Ege, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
A native of Turkey, Professor Ege received her B.S. degree in 1949 from the
American College for Girls in Istanbul, Turkey, her M.A. degree from Smith College in
1952, and her Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1956. She joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an instructor of chemistry in 1965 and was promoted
to assistant professor in 1967, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1980. From
1989-92, Professor Ege served as associate chair of the department for curricular
development and faculty affairs. She was designated as an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor
in 1990.
Professor Ege has been the creator, driving force, and leading spirit behind the
chemistry department's new curriculum  initiative.  She is known and respected
internationally as a leader in chemical education for her role in the new curriculum
design and change. Many elements and ideas that were introduced in her book, Organic


316




June Meeting, 2001


Chemistry: Structure & Reactivity, have now been imitated and blended into the
frameworks of other chemistry textbooks.
Professor Ege has been and continues to be a strong advocate for the department's
undergraduate students and for undergraduate learning in general. She has been a
mentor, counselor, and advisor to thousands of students. She made chemistry a lively
activity and motivated students to pursue careers in science. Her combination of
dedication, sincerity, patience, and ability to inspire students has been truly unique.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Seyhan N.
Ege professor emerita of chemistry.
Sidney Fine, Ph.D., professor of history and the Andrew Dickson White
Professor of History in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Fine received his B.A. degree from Western Reserve University in 1942
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1944 and 1948,
respectively. He began his career at the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1948
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1951, associate professor in 1955, and
professor in 1959. He was appointed the Andrew Dickson White Distinguished
Professor of History in 1974.
For 53 years, Professor Fine has been an exemplary scholar, teacher, and
colleague. He is an outstanding leader in American labor history and is the foremost
scholar of the social and political history of Michigan. Among his 11 books, which
altogether have won 8 awards, are a 3-volume study of the life and times of Frank
Murphy and accounts of the General Motors sit-down strike of 1936-37 and the Detroit
riots of 1967. He received a Guggenheim Fellowship, was elected president of Labor
Historians, and received 3 honorary degrees. He chaired the Department of History
from 1969-71, served on the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive
Committee from 1960-65, and was a member of many other college and departmental
committees.  Professor Fine received the University of Michigan's Distinguished
Faculty Achievement Award in 1969 and was named the Henry Russel Lecturer for
1984-85.
Professor Fine has always been an extraordinarily dedicated and effective teacher.
The Council for Advancement and Support of Education named him Professor of the
Year for the state of Michigan in 1986, and he received a special tribute from the state
in 1997. He is the only member of the UM faculty to have ever been designated as the
Henry Russel Lecturer as well as being honored by the undergraduates with the Golden
Apple Award for outstanding university teaching.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Sidney Fine professor
emeritus of history and the Andrew Dickson White professor emeritus of history.
Charles D. Garvin, Ph.D., professor of social work, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Garvin received his M.A. (1951) and Ph.D. (1968) degrees in social
work from the University of Chicago. He joined the University of Michigan School of
Social Work as an assistant professor of social work in 1965 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1972.
His major interests were in the development of effective group work procedures
and, more recently, on the rehabilitation of individuals with a dual diagnosis of both
mental illness and substance abuse. He has conducted research on how different


317




June Meeting, 2001


societies direct programs to ameliorate ethnic and class conflicts among youth. This
research involved the development and testing of a family intervention for dually
diagnosed individuals who are unmotivated for treatment. He has also had extensive
international experience, having worked with colleagues in Hungary, Poland,
Macedonia, and Croatia.
Professor Garvin has taught an extraordinary range of courses in social work,
including intervention methods with individuals, families, groups, organizations, and
communities as well as courses on human behavior and the social environment and
recently, international social work. He has served as chair of the Interpersonal Practice
Program, Curriculum Committee, Dean's Search Committee, and Strategic Planning
Committee. He has served two terms on the school's executive committee and was the
director of the doctoral program from 1989-96.
Professor Garvin has authored several books, including Social Work in
Contemporary Society, Contemporary Group Work, Interpersonal Practice in Social
Work, and The Work Incentive Experience, which reports a four-year research project on
the Work Incentive Program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Charles D.
Garvin professor emeritus of social work.
Adon A. Gordus, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001, following a
distinguished career as a teacher and a scholar.
Professor Gordus received his B.S. degree in chemistry from the Illinois Institute
of Technology in 1952 and his Ph.D. degree in chemistry from the University of
Wisconsin in 1956. Following a postdoctoral fellowship, he joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1957. He was promoted to assistant professor in
1960, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1970.
Professor Gordus was noted both for his research in neutron activation analysis,
especially of minerals, art objects, and artifacts of archeological interest, and for his
outstanding teaching and mentoring of undergraduate students. He served as assistant
director of the Honors Program for many years and regularly taught undergraduate
analytical chemistry. He was among the first to introduce the use of personal computers
to students and developed a set of applications for the exploration of statistical treatment
of analytical data in ordinary spreadsheets. He also authored a popular textbook on
quantitative analysis for the Schaum's Outline series.
For his contributions to the undergraduate curriculum and his devotion to
undergraduate teaching and mentoring, Professor Gordus received the Amoco Good
Teaching Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Adon A.
Gordus professor emeritus of chemistry.
Robert D. Hanson, Ph.D., professor of civil engineering in the Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Hanson received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of
Minnesota in 1957 and 1958, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from the California
Institute of Technology in 1965. Following a year at the University of California at
Davis, he joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1966.


318




June Meeting, 2001


He was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1974 and served as
chair of the Department of Civil Engineering from 1976-84.
Professor Hanson's research focused on earthquake response of structures and
structural systems. He authored more than 100 refereed publications and was chair or
co-chair of 23 Ph.D. dissertation committees. In 1984, he was elected to the National
Academy of Engineering (NAE) and from January 1989 through December 1990 he
served as program director of the Division of Biological and Critical Engineering
Systems in the Engineering Directorate of the National Science Foundation (NSF).
From 1994-2000, Professor Hanson was a senior earthquake engineer for the Federal
Emergency Management Agency under an intergovernmental personnel agreement. He
chaired 3 major committees of the American Society of Civil Engineers, was president
of the Earthquake Engineering Research Institute from 1989-91, and was a member of
the American Concrete Institute, American Society of Engineering Education, and
Seismological Society of America. In 1986, the College of Engineering awarded
Professor Hanson its prestigious Steven S. Atwood Excellence in Engineering Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for dedicated service by
naming Robert D. Hanson professor emeritus of civil engineering.
Elton D. Higgs, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from
active faculty status on April 30, 2001.
Professor Higgs received his B.A. degree from Abilene Christian College in 1961
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pittsburgh in 1963 and 1965,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as an assistant
professor of English in 1965 and was promoted to associate professor in 1970 and
professor in 1974.
Professor Higgs, whose major area of scholarship is Middle English literature, has
published a number of scholarly articles and book reviews on Chaucer, Langland,
Shakespeare, and Milton. He also co-authored a volume of the Index of Middle English
Prose in 1988 and is the author of A Gift Renewed: The First 25 Years of the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, 1959-1984.
Within the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, Professor Higgs served as acting
dean from 1973-74, associate dean from 1974-76, director of graduate studies from
1976-80, and as a member of the CASL executive committee. Most recently, he served
as director of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters' Master of Liberal Studies
Program (1997-present). He developed the core curriculum for the first freshman class
of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Professor Higgs also chaired the University of
Michigan-Dearborn NCA self-study from 1982-84 and co-chaired the self-study again
from 1992-94.
The Regents salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by naming
Elton D. Higgs professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Peggie J. Hollingsworth, Ph.D., assistant research scientist, completed her faculty
appointment on May 31, 1999, after a successful career as a researcher and educator.
Dr. Hollingsworth received her B.S. degree in biology and chemistry from the
University of Toledo in 1959, her M.A. degree in molecular biology from Bowling
Green State University in 1970, and her Ph.D. degree in toxicology from the University
of Michigan in 1982. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as a research
investigator in the Department of Pharmacology in 1982 and was promoted to assistant


319




June Meeting, 2001


research scientist in 1985. From 1983-99, she also served as assistant research scientist
in the Toxicology Research Labs in the School of Public Health. During 1992 and
1994, Dr. Hollingsworth was a visiting scientist at Hokkaido University Medical School
in Sapporo, Japan.
Dr. Hollingsworth has an outstanding service record, both within the University
community and at the national level. She served as chair of SACUA in the 1990-91
academic year and during that time, she was also president of Sigma Xi. In recognition
of her contributions, she was awarded the Academic Women's Caucus Sarah Goddard
Power Award in 1990, the Association of Black Professionals and Administrators
Appreciation Award in 1992, and the Distinguished Faculty Governance Award in
1994.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher for her dedicated service by
naming Peggie J. Hollingsworth assistant research scientist emerita.
Nancy M. Houk, Ph.D., research scientist in the Department of Astronomy,
retired from active faculty status on March 31, 2001.
Dr. Houk received her B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1962, her
M.S. degree from Case Institute of Technology in 1964, and her Ph.D. degree from Case
Western Reserve University in 1967. From 1967-70, she held postgraduate positions at
Case Western Reserve University and at the Kapteyn Laboratory in Groningen, The
Netherlands.  Following a brief tour as acting director of the Maria Mitchell
Observatory in Nantucket, Massachusetts, she joined the astronomy department at
Michigan as a research associate in December of 1970. She was promoted to assistant
research scientist in 1973, associate research scientist in 1977, and research scientist in
1985.
Dr. Houk conceived and carried out the monumental task of classifying some two
hundred thousand stars from the Henry Draper Catalogue. These classifications were
made on the modern two-dimensional system which provides a measure of both the
surface temperature of a star and its intrinsic luminosity.  This work enjoyed
international acclaim and received more than two million dollars in funding from the
National Science Foundation for more than three decades. Well over one hundred
graduate and undergraduate students received an introduction to research as part of Dr.
Houk's team, and several have gone on to professional careers in astronomy. Her work
has been published in professional journals and presented at national and international
meetings. Dr. Houk will continue to work on the project after her retirement.
In addition to astronomical societies, Dr. Houk is a member of the American
Association for the Advancement of Religion in an Age of Science. She has also been
active in the University of Michigan Choral Union and in the Chancel Choir of the First
Presbyterian Church of Ann Arbor. She remains a keen supporter of the University of
Michigan and Detroit sports teams. As an opera fan she travels regularly to Chicago,
Detroit, and New York.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Nancy M. Houk research
scientist emerita.
John W. Konnak, M.D., professor of surgery, will retire from active faculty
status on June 30, 2001, after a most productive career as a physician, surgeon, teacher,
and researcher.
A native of Wisconsin, Dr. Konnak received his B.S. and M.D. degrees, in 1959
and 1962, respectively, from the University of Wisconsin. He interned at Philadelphia


320




June Meeting, 2001


General Hospital from 1962-63. His surgery residency was completed at Harbor
General Hospital in Torrance, California, in 1965-66. He then entered the Urology
Residency Program at the University of Michigan in 1966 and completed his residency
training in 1969. He was appointed to the faculty in 1969 as an instructor and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1974, and professor in
1982.
Dr. Konnak's association with the University of Michigan began during the days of
Dr. Reed Nesbit, when Michigan's urology program was establishing its national
preeminence. During his career, he trained numerous residents who are now scattered
throughout the country in various academic and private practices. He was a recipient of
the Silver Cystoscope Award and Outstanding Achievement Award for his contribution
to resident education and growth of the Section of Urology. His many contributions to
the field of urology include urologic oncology and renal transplantation. Despite his
retirement, he will continue to perform living donor nephrectomies with the Medical
Center transplant team.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician, surgeon, and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming John W. Konnak professor emeritus of surgery.
Samuel Krimm, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, professor of macromolecular science and engineering in the College of
Engineering, and research scientist in the Biophysics Research Division, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Krimm received his B.S. degree from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn
in 1947 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Princeton University in 1949 and 1950,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1952 and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1954, associate professor in 1958, and professor
in 1963. He served as associate dean for research and facilities, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, from 1972-75, chair of the Biophysics Research Division from
1976-86, and director of the Program in Protein Structure and Design from 1986-94.
A prolific researcher, Professor Krimm has over 280 publications. He pioneered
the use of vibrational spectroscopy methods and produced a benchmark series of papers
on synthetic and natural macromolecules. He proposed and implemented the isotopic
substitution technique for defining the state of folded polymer chains, which played a
major role in clarifying our concepts of the structure of crystalline polymers and the
structural basis of the infrared and Raman spectra of proteins. His recent work focuses
on the development of accurate potential energy functions for polymers and proteins.
Professor Krimm's honors include the High Polymer Physics Prize (1977) from the
American Physical Society and the University of Michigan's Distinguished Faculty
Achievement Award (1986). He is a fellow of the American Physical Society and the
American Association for the Advancement of Science and was a senior fellow in the
UM Society of Fellows (1971-76). In 1983, he was awarded the Humboldt Prize,
Germany's highest research award for senior U.S. scientists and scholars in all
disciplines.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar by naming Samuel
Krimm professor emeritus of physics, professor emeritus of macromolecular science
and engineering, and research scientist emeritus.
Robert L. Macdonald, M.D., Ph.D., professor of neurology, the Russell N.
DeJong Professor of Neurology, and professor of physiology, will retire from active


321




June Meeting, 2001


faculty status on June 30, 2001, after a most productive career as a teacher, clinician,
and basic investigator.
A native of Michigan, Dr. Macdonald received his B.S. degree from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1966 and his Ph.D. and M.D. degrees from the
University of Virginia in 1969 and 1973, respectively. He served his internship and
residency at the University of Virginia from 1974-77. He was a research assistant
professor of neurology at the University of Virginia and an investigator at the National
Institutes of Health from 1976-78. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
associate professor of neurology in 1978. He was promoted to professor of neurology in
1981, was appointed professor of physiology in 1982, and was installed as the first
Russell N. DeJong Professor of Neurology in 1995. He has contributed strength and
vitality to both instructional and research programs of the Department of Neurology.
Dr. Macdonald's publication record includes 165 refereed journal articles and 52
book chapters. He received the S. Weir Mitchell Award (1978) and the Cotzias Award
(1996) from the American Academy of Neurology; the latter is the highest research
award given by the AAN. He has received the Epilepsy Research Award of the
American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics (1986). He has
served as president of the American Epilepsy Society and gave its Lennox Lecture in
1994. Dr. Macdonald gave the University of Michigan Biomedical Research Council
Distinguished Lecture in 1998. He has made major contributions to the understanding
of 1) the biophysical and pharmacological properties, structure, and functional assembly
of the y-aminobutyric acid Type A (GABAA) receptor channel, 2) the mechanisms of
action of a wide variety of antiepileptic drugs that are used to treat patients with epilepsy,
and 3) the basis for the prolonged seizures of status epilepticus.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician-scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Robert L. Macdonald professor emeritus of neurology, the Russell N.
DeJong Professor Emeritus of Neurology, and professor emeritus of physiology.
William M. Marsh, professor of physical geography at the University of
Michigan-Flint and adjunct professor of natural resources in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Marsh received his A.B. degree from Central Michigan University in
1964 and his A.M. degree from the University of Missouri in 1965. He joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint in 1970 as a lecturer in the Department of
Earth and Resource Science. He was promoted to instructor in 1971, assistant professor
in 1975, associate professor in 1979, and professor in 1990. He also served as
department chair for more than 25 years.
Professor Marsh was active in teaching and research on both the Flint and Ann Arbor
campuses. His work involved three disciplines: geomorphology, landscape architecture,
and environmental planning, and his contributions at the point where these three fields
overlap have made a vital difference in professional practice in landscape architecture.
He frequently lectured in landscape architecture, architecture, and urban planning on the
Ann Arbor campus. Professor Marsh was a gifted teacher who brought a wonderful
artistic talent to blackboard illustrations that left lasting impressions on students and
colleagues.
Professor Marsh has been honored with the David M. French Distinguished
Professorship (1994-96), the University of Michigan-Flint Faculty Scholarly Achievement
Award (1990-91), and the Michigan Association of Governing Boards of Colleges and


322




June Meeting, 2001


Universities Distinguished Faculty Award (1995). He serves on the Canadian Society of
Landscape Architecture National Accreditation Board and the Editorial Advisory Board of
the Landscape and Urban Planning Journal. He is an honorary member of the Michigan
Society of Landscape Architecture and was a great master in landscape architecture at
Texas A&M University in 1985 and 1986. He has lectured widely throughout North
America, has published six books, and is widely recognized as a leader in the field of
landscape planning.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming William M. Marsh professor emeritus of physical geography.
Gene M. Schramm, Ph.D., professor of Semitics in the Department of Near
Eastern Studies, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001, after 36 years of
distinguished service.
Professor Schramm received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of
California at Berkeley in 1948 and 1950, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from
Dropsie College, Philadelphia, in 1956. He began his academic career at the University
of California at Berkeley as an assistant professor in 1959. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an associate professor of  Semitics and linguistics in the
Department of Near Eastern Studies in 1965 and was promoted to professor in 1971.
Professor Schramm is one of the leading Semitists and linguistic theorists who
made striking discoveries in comparative Semitic phonology, Hebrew and Arabic verbal
syntax and semantics, dialect geography, and linguistic-literary analysis of Hebrew. As
his colleague Prof  eset McCarus once observed, "Gene Schramm is a superb
linguist, foremost in the areas of comparative-historical linguistics and transformational
theory." Professor Schramm was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship for 1964-65 and
served as treasurer of the American Oriental Society from 1989-91. His numerous
professional affiliations include the American Oriental Society, the Linguistic Group at
Berkeley, the Linguistic Society of America, the International Linguistic Society of New
York, the Judaic Studies Committee, and the Society for Biblical Literature.
Professor Schramm was a devoted and much loved teacher. He taught classes in
Jewish Civilizations, Intermediate Hebrew, Medieval Hebrew Literature, Tannaitic
Literature, Great Books, Comparative Semitic Linguistics, and Structure of Hebrew.
His colleague Professor Ralph Williams aptly observed, "Gene Schramm is a man of
great learning, great good will, and good spirit."
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Gene M. Schramm
professor emeritus of Semitics.
James H. Sherman, Ph.D., associate professor of physiology, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2000, after a long and productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Detroit, Professor Sherman received his B.S. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1957 and his Ph.D. degree from Cornell University in 1963.
He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an instructor in physiology in
1964 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1966 and associate professor in 1971.
From 1972-77, he served as assistant director of the Office of Allied Health Education
in the Department of Postgraduate Medicine.
Professor Sherman has made major contributions as an educator within the Medical
School. For many years, he directed and taught "Introductory Human Physiology," a
course taken by a variety of undergraduates.  He taught muscle, respiratory, and


323




June Meeting, 2001


gastrointestinal physiology to both medical and graduate students and, from 1999-2000,
served as director of the first year medical physiology course. Professor Sherman served
on many committees involved in planning and administering the preclinical medical
curriculum and was well-known for his efforts in helping graduate students to become
good teachers. His research focused on amino acid transport and he served on a number
of thesis committees and fostered the hypothesis-testing approach to research in a
generation of Ph.D. students. Professor Sherman is co-author with Drs. A. Vander and
D. Luciano of the widely-used textbook, Human Physiology: The Mechanisms of Body
Function, which has evolved through eight editions over thirty years and is one of the
most widely used texts in its field.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health science educator for his dedicated
service by naming James H. Sherman associate professor emeritus of physiology.
Thomas C. Shope, M.D., associate professor of pediatrics and communicable
diseases in the Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 2001.
Dr. Shope received his B.A. degree from the State University of Iowa in 1960 and
his M.D. degree from Cornell University Medical School in 1964 and was an intern and
resident at the University of Minnesota University Hospitals from 1964-67. From
1967-69, he was an epidemiologist at the National Centers for Disease Control, and
from 1969-73, he was a fellow in Pediatric Infectious Diseases and then an instructor at
Yale University School of Medicine. From 1973-82, he was a faculty member at Wayne
State University. Dr. Shope joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1982 as
associate professor of pediatrics in the Departments of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases and Pathology and from 1982-95 was also associate professor of epidemiology
in the School of Public Health.
Dr. Shope's research has centered on a variety of aspects of infection with human
viruses and, more recently, on medical student education. His extensive record as an
administrator includes service as director of the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Service,
director of the Pediatric Bacteriology Laboratory and the Virology Diagnostic
Laboratory, medical director of the Infectious Diseases and Isolation Unit at C. S. Mott
Children's Hospital, director of the House Officer Program in the Department of
Pediatrics, associate dean for academic programs and associate dean for student
programs at the Medical School, and director of Clinical and Educational Programs in
Primary Care in the Department of Pediatrics.
Dr. Shope has had an active clinical practice in pediatric infectious diseases in the
Outpatient Consultation Clinic and in the Consultation Service at C. S. Mott Children's
Hospital. He has taught medical students, pediatric residents, and infectious diseases
fellows and has participated in departmental seminars, lectures, and Medical School
courses. He has devoted considerable effort to curriculum design in Pediatric Primary
Care and in conducting faculty development seminars in medical education.
The Regents salute this distinguished and productive faculty member by naming
Thomas C. Shope associate professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable
diseases.
James A. Standifer, Ph.D., professor of music (music education), School of
Music, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Standifer received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from Fisk University in
1957 and 1958, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from Case Western Reserve
University in 1968. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1970 as associate


324




June Meeting, 2001


professor in the School of Music and lecturer in the School of Education; he was
promoted to professor of music in 1973. He was chair of the Department of Music
Education from 1976-79 and has served as the director of the Eva Jessye Collection of
Afro-American Music since 1980.
A specialist in secondary school general music and urban and multicultural
music education, Professor Standifer is active internationally as a consultant and
lecturer. He directed the Oral History Video Archive/Black American Musicians at the
Center for African American and African Studies and has produced TV programs about
music education and American music and musicians for PBS. He was a writer and
senior advisor for the series "From Jumpstreet: A Story of Black Music;" music
consultant on a documentary about Moms Mabley; and consultant on a Shedd
Productions documentary using multicultural music titled "Why Is Music Music?"
Professor Standifer has conducted research on the cultures of China, Korea,
Libya, Ghana, and South Africa. He is co-author of several books, including the
secondary school vocal music series Sound Beat and Feeling; Sound, Shape and
Symbol; African and Afro-American Materials for The Music Educator; and Methods
and Perspectives in Urban Music Education. He is a reader/evaluator for the Minorities
Fellowship Program of the Ford Foundation, the National Research Council, and the
U.S. Department of Education's Jacob Javits Fellowship Program. His work has been
supported by the NEA, NEH, National Academy of Sciences, Ford Foundation, Dorothy
and DuBose Hayward Memorial Fund, Ira and Leonora Gershwin Foundation, the
George Gershwin Foundation, and the National Black TV Programming Consortium.
He recently produced an award-winning documentary for PBS, "Porgy and Bess: An
American Voice," which aired nationally and is being distributed worldwide.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James A. Standifer
professor emeritus of music (music education).
Joan S. Stark, Ed.D., professor of education and former dean, School of
Education, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001, after 23 years of
service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Stark received her B.S. degree from Syracuse University in 1957, her
M.A. degree from Teachers College, Columbia University in 1960, and her Ed.D.
degree from the State University of New York at Albany in 1971. Following
employment as a high school teacher, college instructor, and administrator at Goucher
College (1970-74) and Syracuse University (1974-78), Professor Stark joined the
University of Michigan School of Education in 1978 as dean and professor. She served
as dean until 1983.
A leading authority on post secondary curriculum and teaching, Professor Stark
directed the federally-funded National Center for Research to Improve Post Secondary
Teaching and Learning from 1986-91. She has done extensive research and published
widely on issues related to college curriculum, curriculum leadership, and teaching and
learning in higher education. Her research is cited frequently and is used as a
conceptual framework for dissertations and improvement practice throughout the U.S.,
Europe, and Australia. She was editor of the Review of Higher Education from
1991-96. She has served as curriculum consultant to educational programs in many
professional fields such as nursing, accounting, medicine, and journalism.
Professor Stark has received a number of national awards, including the Exemplary
Research Award from the American Educational Research Association; the Research


325




June Meeting, 2001


Achievement Award, Distinguished Service Award, and most recently, the Howard
Bowen Distinguished Career Award from the Association for the Study of Higher
Education; and the Suslow Career Research Award and Distinguished Membership
Award from the Association for Institutional Research. Her teaching has consistently
received praise from students and her mentorship is highly valued by the graduate
students with whom she works.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Joan S. Stark professor
emerita of education and dean emerita.
Harold W. Stevenson, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and fellow in the Center for Human Growth and
Development, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 2001.
Professor Stevenson received his B.A. degree from the University of Colorado in
1947 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University in 1948 and 1951,
respectively. He served on the faculty of the University of Texas until 1959, when he
became director of the Institute of Child Development at the University of Minnesota.
In 1971, he came to Michigan as a fellow in the Center for Human Growth and
Development and professor in the Department of Psychology.
Early in his career, Professor Stevenson and a handful of other researchers defined
and established the field of children's learning. He initiated much of the basic research
on the effects of tangible and social rewards on children's learning, children's learning
of central versus incidental content, the influence of anxiety and failure on children's
learning, and their learning from filmed or televised displays. At Michigan, Professor
Stevenson began focusing on cognition, learning, and achievement in schools,
comparing school achievement across a variety of cultures, especially the U.S., China,
and Japan. Professor Stevenson elegantly overcame the monumental obstacles to
collecting the needed culturally comparable data essential to comparing learning and
achievement across contrasting cultural practices in order to fully understand how
humans develop adult abilities. His persuasive articulation of his findings changed the
face of the national discussion about schools and achievement. His research efforts
stand as a model of scientific rigor coupled with practical implications and societal
impact.
Professor Stevenson has received numerous honors and awards, including
membership in the National Academy of Education; the APA Distinguished Scientific
Award for the Applications of Psychology; and the James McKeen Cattell Fellow
Award in Applied Psychology. Equally impressive are the unusually productive records
of the more than 40 Ph.D. students he has mentored into illustrious careers of their own.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Harold W. Stevenson
professor emeritus of psychology and fellow emeritus in the Center for Human Growth
and Development.
Benjamin A. Stolz, Ph.D., professor of Slavic languages and literatures, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Stolz received his A.B. degree in 1955 from the University of Michigan
and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees in 1957 and 1965, respectively, from Harvard
University. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1964 and was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and professor in 1973.
During his thirty-seven years on the Michigan faculty, Professor Stolz has traveled
the entire academic path-including his extended and exceptional service as department


326




June Meeting, 2001


chair. His primary academic area is Slavic linguistics, with particular emphasis on
South Slavic languages and cultures. Professor Stolz's research interests and resulting
publications are broad, ranging from the formation of South Slavic literary languages to
South Slavic oral folklore (including the epic). A well-received translation and critical
edition of the sixteenth-century manuscript Konstantin Mihailovic Turkish Chronicle is
just one of his many remarkable South Slavic projects. His teaching was exemplary,
ranging from a backbone course in Old Church Slavic to courses on South Slavic
folklore and sociolinguistics.
Professor Stolz actively promoted cultural contacts with Eastern Europe and has
become a well-respected academic anchor for a number of Slavists from the area,
especially from the former Yugoslavia. A frequent visitor to this part of Eastern
Europe, he has a profound understanding of its languages and cultures. He has also
been active in forming academic links with Russia. In the late 1980s, when it suddenly
became possible for Russian intellectuals to travel abroad for the first time, he
succeeded in bringing a number of renowned Russian linguists to the University. Last
but not least, Professor Stolz's involvement in the American career of the Russian poet
and Nobel Laureate Joseph Brodsky, and his elegant tribute to Brodsky in the form of a
scholarly symposium in 1996, testify to the depth of his sympathy and understanding
and his abilities in uniting diverse interests in support of a good cause.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Benjamin A. Stolz
professor emeritus of Slavic languages and literatures.
Thomas F. Storer, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science and Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Storer received his B.A. degree from the University of California at Los
Angeles in 1959 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Southern
California in 1962 and 1964, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as a T. H. Hildebrandt Research Instructor in 1965, and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1967, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1979.
Professor Storer's research area was primarily in combinatorics, more specifically
cyclotomy, and his monograph "Cyclotomy and Difference Sets" (1967) became a
standard reference. He also conducted research in modeling of long-term memory and
recognition and directed the thesis work of eight doctoral students. Professor Storer was
an outstanding teacher, especially of honors students. A firm believer that students will
respond to challenges, his courses were among the most rigorous, but his distinctive
teaching style, coupled with great intellectual excitement, drew students to his classes
and led them to take additional courses from him. In recognition of his teaching skills,
he was awarded the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award in 1985. Professor
Storer also had a great impact on students in his role as a freshman-sophomore
counselor for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Honors Program, a
position he held for 32 years. It was in that role where his integrity, sensitivity,
patience, and empathy for students enabled him not only to guide them academically,
but also to help them become well-rounded individuals.
Professor Storer is very proud of his Native American ancestry and culture. For
many years, he was the principle faculty spokesman for Native Americans and he
counseled most of the Native American students. Among other endeavors, he taught the
Ojibwa language, worked on an Ojibwa dictionary, and wrote about string figures.


327




June Meeting, 2001


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Thomas F. Storer professor
emeritus of mathematics.
Charles Witke, Ph.D., professor of Greek and Latin in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Witke received his B.A. degree from the University of California at Los
Angeles in 1953 and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1957 and
1962, respectively.  He began his career as assistant professor of classics at the
University of Chicago in 1962. From there, he moved to the University of California at
Berkeley, where he was assistant professor (1963-68), associate professor (1968-70),
and chair of the Committee on Mediaeval Studies (1964-70). He served as professor of
classics and comparative literature at the State University of New York at Binghamton
in 1970 and joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1971 as professor of classical
studies and director of the Program in Comparative Literature. He served as associate
dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts from 1971-74 and was a member of
the college's executive committee from 1975-78.
Professor Witke is well known for his work on Latin literature, in which he has
published extensively. The books for which he is sure to be remembered are his fine
studies of the Roman satirists: Lucilius, Horace, and Juvenal. He focused much of his
later research on texts of the Middle Ages and Renaissance, where his publications
cover a broad range including Latin paleography, Erasmus, theology, liturgy, and the
history of the Western Christian church. He has written four books and numerous
articles and recently completed a translation of Erasmus' Hyperapistes.
Following his interests in comparative literature and church history, Professor
Witke has traveled widely. As a student, he held a Fulbright Fellowship to Italy and
was awarded the Rome Prize in Classics by the American Academy in Rome (1960-62).
He has returned to the academy often over the years as a visiting scholar and in 1997
was appointed resident in classics. He has held grants from various universities and
from the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Charles Witke
professor emeritus of Greek and Latin.
Lung Chiang Wu, Ph.D., associate professor of computer science at the
University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2000.
Professor Wu obtained his B.Sc. degree from the Cheng Kung University, Taiwan
in 1962, his M.S. degree from Kansas State University in 1965, his M.S. degree from
the University of Michigan in 1972, and his Ph.D. degree in industrial and operations
engineering from the University of Michigan in 1980. He worked at AC Spark Plug,
General Motors Corporation, and the State of Michigan before joining the University of
Michigan-Flint faculty as an associate professor of computer science in 1981. He
served as chair of the department from 1986-89 and again from 1998-99.
Professor Wu's area of expertise is operations research, and he is a recognized
expert in using operations research models to model manufacturing operations. Early in
his career, he described the use of a mixed integer programming model to handle the
purchase of a platinum catalyst during a fuel crisis when corporations were locked into
long-term contracts. Another publication involves using operations research modeling
to establish optimal buffers of parts between operations on a paced assembly line.
Professor Wu's work is critical to "real world" manufacturing and industrial operations
and is germinal in its field. It resulted in significant cost savings for his employer and


328




June Meeting, 2001


was done in the era of punch cards and Fortran. Later publications focused on assembly
line operation, product changeover, and strategic planning.
His teaching expertise lies in the areas of data structures, simulation and modeling,
database, and artificial intelligence.  Combining his industrial experiences with
classroom situations, he developed courses with "real world" implications and
applications.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Lung Chiang Wu associate professor emeritus of computer science.
Mayer N. Zald, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, professor of social work in the School of Social Work, and
professor of business administration in the School of Business Administration, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2001, following a long and distinguished
career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of the Detroit area, Professor Zald received his B.A. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1953, his M.A. degree from the University of Hawaii in 1955,
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1961. He served on the
faculties of the University of Chicago (1960-64) and Vanderbilt University (1964-77)
before joining the University of Michigan as professor of sociology and professor of
social work in 1977. Professor Zald served as chair of the sociology department from
1981-86 and again from 1990-92. He received the additional appointment as professor
of business administration in 1989.
A superb and highly original researcher, Professor Zald is the author or editor of
some 20 books and edited collections and nearly 80 articles, book chapters, and review
essays. His work spans the fields of organizational studies, collective behavior, and
social theory, and he has made lasting and distinguished contributions in each area. His
research accomplishments have garnered numerous awards and prizes, including
election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and his selection last year as the
Distinguished Senior Faculty Lecturer in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts.
Professor Zald is a committed and caring instructor who has exposed generations of
undergraduates to the joys of intellectual inquiry. His warm and supportive style,
coupled with his probing analytical mind, have won over countless graduate students and
colleagues alike.  Professor Zald is renowned and revered for his generosity in
contributing to the work of students, other scholars, and the wider intellectual
communities of which he remains such a vital part.
The Regents now salute this distinguished and multi-talented scholar, teacher, and
colleague by naming Mayer N. Zald professor emeritus of sociology, professor emeritus
of social work, and professor emeritus of business administration.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Lease Agreement with Allen & Kwan Commercial
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with Allen & Kwan Commercial for property


329




June Meeting, 2001


located at 1250 N. Main Street in Ann Arbor. Regent Deitch was not present when the
vote was taken. Because Peter T. Allen is both co-owner of Allen & Kwan and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School
of Art and Design and Allen & Kwan Commercial.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease of studio space at 1250 N. Main Street for 60
months, beginning May 15, 2001, at a monthly rate of $14,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Peter T. Allen, a University of
Michigan employee, is the co-owner of Allen & Kwan Commercial.
Purchasing Contract with Praja, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Praja, Inc. to provide software and
development for a pilot initiative known as Business Revolution Space. Regent Deitch
was not present when the vote was taken. Because C.K. Prahalad is both a University of
Michigan employee and chairman of Praja, Inc., this contract falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.    The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School
of Business Administration and Praja, Incorporated.
2.   The service to be provided is the development of an instructional/conferencing
software application for an amount not to exceed $300,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that C.K. Prahalad, a University of
Michigan employee, is the chairman of Praja, Inc.
Purchasing Contract with Emagware Corporation
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Emagware Corporation for purchase of
its software, "emPicasso."   Because Linda Katehi and Kamal Sarabandi are both
University of Michigan employees and stockholders and part owners in Emagware
Corporation, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan through its
Media Union and Emagware Corporation.
2.   The service provided is software with maintenance and technical support, to be
provided for the period beginning May 1, 2001 and ending April 30, 2002, in the
amount of $10,000.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Linda Katehi and Kamal Sarabandi,
University of Michigan employees, are stockholders and part owners in Emagware
Corporation.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and MCE Optoelectronics
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement with MCE Optoelectronics involving use of the UM
Solid State Electronics Laboratory by MCE employees. Because Pallab Bhattacharya and
Dimitris Pavlidis are both University of Michigan employees and members of the board of
MCE Optoelectronics, and George Haddad is a stockholder in MCE Companies Inc. (of
which MCE Optoelectronics is a wholly-owned subsidiary), this agreement falls under the


330




June Meeting, 2001


State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and MCE Optoelectronics Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The amount of the award to the University if $300,000. The period of use is three
years.
3.   Professors Bhattacharya, Pavlidis, and Haddad have no pecuniary interest in the
proposed agreement.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Rebus Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Rebus Inc. for the technology, "The Ounce of Prevention Scale." Because Samuel
Meisels is both a University of Michigan employee and an owner of Rebus Inc., this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Rebus Inc., a company
owned by Samuel Meisels.
2.   Contract terms include:
Exclusive right to create derivative works, market, distribute and otherwise
commercialize the Scale as it exists at the time the agreement is executed.
The University retains the right to grant rights to sponsors as required by existing
contracts.
The University retains ownership of the Scale and the rights to create derivative works
and to use, reproduce, and publicly display it for the University's own internal use.
The licensee will need to request an amendment that must be reviewed for conflict of
interest if it wishes to have rights to any further work done on the Scale at the
University. This amendment may involve an increase in royalties for the additional
enhancements.
Royalties are a license fee of $1,000 due within 30 days and each year thereafter, plus
20% on gross sublicensing revenue.
Milestones include having a product available and offered for sale by June 3, 2003, and
at least one sale made by June 30, 2004. The University has the option of terminating
the agreement if milestones are not met.
Rebus must maintain product liability coverage and comply with the standard terms the
University requires to manage the liability associated with commercialization.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Samuel Meisels arises from his ownership in Rebus Inc.
License Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Oncolmmune
Ltd.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a license option agreement with Oncolmmune Ltd. to develop and
commercialize the technology, "Ras Mutants Control Oncogenic Transformation."
Because Dr. Kun-Liang Guan is both a University of Michigan employee and owner of
Oncolmmune Ltd., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncolmmune Ltd.
2.   Contract terms:


331




June Meeting, 2001


The contract to be completed between the University of Michigan and OncoImmune
Ltd. consists of a license option agreement to be executed by authorized
representatives of the parties.
The license option grants to Oncolmmune Ltd., for TMO File #17669: an option for an
exclusive, worldwide license, including the right to sublicense, to make, have made,
import, use, market, or offer for sale and sell products incorporating the technology.
Should the option be exercised by Oncolmmune Ltd., any license negotiated by the
Parties will include at least the following:
* The University will receive reimbursement for all patent costs.
* The University will receive payment of a running royalty.
* The University will receive milestone payments, or other consideration if
appropriate.
* The University will receive an equity position in the company.
* Oncolmmune will assume diligence requirements for commercializing the
Michigan Intellectual Property.
* Oncolmmune will agree to indemnification and other reasonable and customary
terms in a license agreement, all in conformity with University policy.
The term of this license option agreement is for one year and is renewable for an
additional year, should Oncolmmune meet certain guidelines.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Dr. Kun-Liang Guan's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in Oncolmmune
Ltd. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by
the University from the company.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Integrated
Sensing Systems (ISSYS) Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS) Inc. for commercialization of the invention known as
"Monolithic Fully-integrated Vacuum Sealed BiCMOS Pressure Sensor." Because
Kensall D. Wise and Khalil Najafi are both University of Michigan employees and holders
of equity interests in ISSYS, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Contract. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and ISSYS, a company in
which Professors Wise and Najafi hold equity interests.
2.   Contract terms include:
A license issue fee of $6,500.00.
Royalties to the University of 4% on net sales revenue.
Royalties of 25% on sublicense revenue.
Non-exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology. The University
retains ownership.
Minimum annual royalties of $1000.00 for 2005 and $2,000.00 for 2006 and each year
thereafter during the term of the agreement.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patent.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Kensall Wise and Khalil Najafi arises from their ownership
interest in ISSYS. Under the provisions of the Regents' Policy on Intellectual Property
they waive any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the
University from the company.


332




June Meeting, 2001


Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
TheraSonics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
TheraSonics, Inc. ("TheraSonics") to practice and commercialize 11 inventions identified
as File Nos. 558, 559, 576, 1103, 1218/1326, 1251, 1266, 1328, 1329, 1336, and 1576.
Because Charles A. Cain, Matthew O'Donnell, and S. Adam Strickberger are all
University of Michigan employees who also hold equity interests in TheraSonics, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TheraSonics.
2.   Contract Terms include:
Exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights
reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational purposes, with
right to grant sub-licenses.
A license issue fee of $120,000 will be applied to reimburse patent expenses and/or
applied against royalties.
Royalties to the University of 3.5% of net sales of products sold by TheraSonics.
Royalties to the University of 25% of total of gross sublicensing revenues received by
TheraSonics.
Specified milestones will be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the license.
All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be paid by the
licensee.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under this agreement.
3.   Drs. Cain, O'Donnell, and Strickberger's pecuniary interests arise from their respective
ownership interests in TheraSonics. They have waived any personal participation in
the sharing of royalties received by the University from the company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Waterford
Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Waterford Project, a non-profit cooperative venture of five-organizations, including the
University of Michigan, whose purpose is to raise funds to support the research of the
member organizations. Because Gary M. Olson is both a University of Michigan
employee and member of the executive committee of the Waterford Project, and the
executive committee awards and disburses funds for use by member organizations, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Waterford Project.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the award to the University is $182,950. The period of performance is
January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2001.
3.   Dr. Gary Olson has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.


333




June Meeting, 2001


Research Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Community Economic Development and Information Technology (CEDit) Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved (with one abstention) a research subcontract agreement between
the University of Michigan and Community Economic Development and Information
Technology (CEDit) Inc. involving a grant from the Michigan Economic Development
Corporation (MEDC) to the University that includes a subcontract to CEDit. Regent
Brandon recused himself from participating in this action due to a perceived conflict of
interest. Because Kenneth R. Brown is both a University of Michigan employee and
president of CEDit, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and CEDit.
2.   Terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The amount of the total MEDC award to UM is $115,060 from November 1, 2000 to
October 31, 2001. The amount of the subcontract to CEDit is $15,000.
3.   Kenneth R. Brown's pecuniary interest arises from his status as president of CEDit.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Veridian ERIM
International Inc.
On a motion by Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement involving collaboration with Dr. David T. Walker at
Veridian ERIM International Inc., pursuant to a grant received by the University from the
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA). Because Dr. Walker is an
employee of Veridian and also has a faculty appointment at the University of Michigan
(without salary or teaching responsibilities), this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Veridian ERIM
International Inc.
2.   Agreement terms: Under the project a subcontract of approximately $869,227 is
anticipated to cover the period March 30, 2001 through June 27, 2005. The
University's standard subcontract provisions will apply. Dr. Walker has played no role
in the negotiation of this contract.
3.   Dr. Walker has no pecuniary interest in this contract other than his status as an
employee of Veridian ERIM International Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Veridian ERIM
International Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract with Veridian ERIM International Inc. pursuant to a
grant received by Veridian ERIM International Inc. from the Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency. Because Dr. David T. Walker is both an employee of Veridian and also
has a faculty appointment at the University of Michigan (without salary or teaching
responsibilities), this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Veridian ERIM
International Inc.
2.   Terms of the agreement: Veridian will issue a subcontract to the University of
Michigan in the amount of $786,804 for a period of fifty-one (51) months. The terms


334




June Meeting, 2001


of the proposed Veridian subcontract are acceptable and conform to University policy.
Dr. Walker has played no role in the negotiation of this contract.
3.   Dr. Walker has no pecuniary interest in this contract, other than his status as an
employee of Veridian ERIM International Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and NOAA/Great
Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
NOAA/Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory, involving collaboration with
and support for Dr. Gary L. Fahnenstiel's activities at NOAA/Great Lakes Environmental
Research Laboratory.  Because Dr. Fahnenstiel is also an adjunct professor at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and NOAA/Great Lakes
Environmental Research Laboratory.
2.   Agreement terms: Under the project, a total subcontract of approximately $94,500 is
anticipated to cover the period of February 15, 2001 through January 30, 2004. The
terms of the proposed Agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.   Dr. Fahnenstiel's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through August 31,
2001 and is without compensation.
Motion to Meet in Nonformal Session
Regent Horning moved that this formal session of the Regents be adjourned and a
non-formal session begun for the purposes of consulting with the board's attorney
regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting continued in nonformal session from 3:20 p.m. until 4:05 p.m., at
which time it recessed to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, all on the subject of
the Gordon Hall Historic District: Nancy Snyder, chair of Washtenaw County Historic
District Commission; Gil Campbell, president of the Dexter Area Historical Society; Paul
Bishop, chair of the Finance Committee of the Dexter Area Historical Society; and Paul
Cousins, member of the Dexter Area Historical Society.
Following Public Comments, the meeting continued in nonformal session until
6:00 p.m.
Friday, June 22, 2001
The Regents convened at 9:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, and Newman. Also
present were Provost Cantor, Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regents Horning,
Taylor, and White and Vice President Ulaby were absent.


335




June Meeting, 2001


President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced that a presentation
on the preservation and renewal of Hill Auditorium would constitute the first order of
business.  For maximum   efficiency, he proposed handling the 26 remaining
Finance-Property items with a single motion, then opening them up for discussion, and
include all items in one vote following the discussion.
Hill Auditorium Renewal Project
President Bollinger observed that few buildings on campus serve as many functions
as Hill Auditorium or hold as many memories for alumni and community members, and it
is also of great architectural significance. It has been known for many years that this
building is in strong need of restoration, and it has also been noted that fundraising for
support of these efforts has only been somewhat successful. Nevertheless, it was clear that
in the name of good stewardship, the building could not be allowed to deteriorate any
further. To that end, discussions have been held with a number of entities with an interest
in Hill Auditorium, including the University Musical Society (UMS), the School of Music,
and others. President Bollinger called on Executive Vice President Kasdin.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the majority of funds spent on
capital projects is for renovation and maintenance of existing buildings, rather than new
construction. The Hill Auditorium renewal project, along with the restoration of the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building, will be the most visible of
these renovation and maintenance projects. Although schematic designs for internal
renovations are generally not presented to the Board, given the importance of Hill
Auditorium to the cultural life of Southeast Michigan, the decision was made to present
detailed descriptions of the planned renovation prior to proceeding.
The renovation will involve two major themes: the stewardship responsibility
(upgrades of the electrical, plumbing, and air-handling systems and installation of
air-conditioning); and enhancing the audience experience through additional bathrooms,
restoration of the interior, including seating, addition of acoustic sound locks, and other
renovations if additional funds can be raised by November 2001. The backstage area
and other unmet needs will be addressed sometime in the future as funds become
available.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Mr. Michael Quinn, of Quinn Evans
Architects. Mr. Quinn noted that he has been working on this project with the
University, UMS, the School of Music, and others, for a number of years, and he gave a
detailed presentation describing the proposed Hill Auditorium Renewal Project. He
noted that the project has an estimated budget of $33.6 million.
Mr. Quinn noted that the project focuses on restoration and preservation, both on
the interior and exterior, and includes: upgrading and replacement of major electrical,
mechanical, and plumbing systems; improvements to life safety features; and addresses
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. He displayed schematic drawings
and site plan illustrations and pointed out all of the interior and exterior features that
will be included in the project. These include an 1800 square foot addition to improve
access for disabled patrons and to provide backstage truck loading and unloading
improvements.


336




June Meeting, 2001


The project includes interior restoration of the architectural finishes and re-creation
of the historical lighting in the auditorium and lobby areas. To provide a performing
arts venue that meets today's standards of audience comfort and overall theatre-going
experience, all of the auditorium seating in the orchestra level will be replaced and the
auditorium's overall capacity will be reduced from 4,170 to 3,650. The orchestra-level
and first balcony level lobbies will be given sound and light locks, additional bathrooms
will be provided, and a number of improvements will be made to address convenience
and accessibility issues for disabled patrons. An elevator will be added that will span all
building levels. Improvements to the balcony lobby area will allow it to be used a preand post-function and reception space. In the second-level balcony, some seating will
be removed for life safety considerations, but no seating will be replaced.
Mr. Quinn noted that a totally new basement/mechanical space would be
constructed that will house new heating, air conditioning, and air handling systems.
Consultants are being employed to guide plans for these systems to ensure that they will
meet state-of-the-art concert hall acoustic standards. With construction of the new
basement, the current basement, under the lobby area, will be come vacant. If additional
funds become available, this area will be made into a new lower lobby space that would
include concessions and two major restroom facilities. Approximately $2-3 million
would be required to complete this portion of the project.
Other items not in the $33.6 million budget that could be added if funds become
available are a second elevator; renovation of the seating at the balcony and/or gallery
levels; improvement and expansion of the upper lobby at the gallery level and
renovation of the toilets at that level.
Mr. Quinn noted that the planning team, which includes representation from the
University Musical Society and the School of Music, has determined that the project
should be underway by May 11, 2002 and the building reopened by November 2003.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that informational meetings with the
architects and others involved in the project will be held both with donors and members
of the community in the coming months. A website has also been created both to
provide information and to request feedback from individuals. He noted also that UMS
and the School of Music are cooperating with project planners to minimize the
dislocation that will occur during the 18-month period when Hill Auditorium will be
closed for renovation, and he pointed out that Rackham Auditorium will have opened by
the time Hill Auditorium is closed.
President Bollinger observed that a huge amount of effort on the part of many
individuals and organization, going back a number of years, has gone into getting this
project to its current state. He introduced Karen Wolff, dean of the School of Music.
Dean Wolff commented that Hill Auditorium is to musicians as a laboratory is to
scientists; many alumni recall giving their senior recital there as a signal event in their
lives. It is one of the most significant halls between the two coasts, and School of
Music faculty are thrilled about the pending renovation. She said School of Music staff
has been working since last fall to find alternative venues for about 40 events that will
need to rescheduled. She noted that the school is prepared to make whatever sacrifices
will be required to enable the renovation to take place.


337




June Meeting, 2001


President Bollinger introduced Beverly Geltner, chair of the University Musical
Society and noted that she has been a key partner in planning the renovation project.
Dr. Geltner expressed gratitude to the University on behalf of UMS for its commitment
to this project and ned tht aned that Hill Auditorium is "the jewel that has brought great
renown and esteem to the University Musical Society and the University of Michigan by
the greatest performers in the world." Although UMS had initially hoped that the entire
array of needed upgrades to the facility could be addressed in this initial phase, the
society understands why the depth and cost of the required "stewardship" improvements
will limit the other needs that can be addressed at this time.  She expressed a
commitment on the part of UMS to join the University in communicating the
importance of this effort to the community and the larger artistic world. The society is
also working with Vice President Feagin and her staff to try to raise the additional $2
million necessary to undertake the lobby renovation at this time. She thanked UMS
staff for their devotion to addressing the needs and concerns of artists for the renovation
and for their efforts in scheduling events at alternate venues during the renovation
period.
It was noted that approval will be sought in late autumn for issuing the project for
bids and a budget will be provided at that time. There being no further discussion,
Regent McGowan moved approval of the design of the Hill Auditorium Renewal
Project as presented at the meeting. Regent Maynard seconded the motion and it was
approved unanimously.
President Bollinger noted that there were 25 additional agenda items to be
addressed in the Finance-Property section and suggested that these be considered with
one motion.  Regent Brandon moved adoption of items #1-4 and 6-26 in the
Finance-Property section. Regent Maynard seconded the motion.
Regent Maynard asked for an explanation of the cost of the "Medical School
Temporary Animal Facilities and Demolition of the Neuroscience Building." Executive
Vice President Kasdin noted that the $4.7 million covers both demolition of a building
and the purchase and relocation of animal facilities. He explained that this demolition
might involve certain expenses that don't normally occur in such a project.
Additionally, the purchase and relocation of the animal facilities will incur extra utility
costs, due to the necessity for it to be located in a remote location. The cost includes
demolition, site work, and the modular structures.
The vote was then taken and the motion to approve the remaining
Finance-Property items was approved unanimously.  The following items were
addressed:
Six Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the Six Month Report on University Audits for the period
October 1, 2000 through March 30, 2001.
Sales of Gifted Real Estate
The Regents were informed of the sale of three gifted real estate properties in April
2001: 100 acres in Salem Township from the estate of Norman J. Dahn; 3,423 acres in


338




June Meeting, 2001


Chippewa County gifted by B & M Development Company; and a condominium at 33841
Manta Court, Dana Point, California, from the estate of Julia Ann Goodman.
Alternative Asset Commitment
The Regents were informed of the commitment of $50 million from the long Term
Portfolio to Brookdale Investors Four, L.P., a follow-on real estate fund.
Alternative Asset Commitments
The Regents were informed of the commitment of $50 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to the two follow-on funds of previously approved alternative asset partnerships
of Matrix Partners VII, L.P. ($35 million) and Advent Global Private Equity IV, L.P. ($15
million).
Alternative Asset Commitments
The Regents approved commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Shorenstein Realty Investors Six, L.P.
Specifically Invested Funds
The Regents approved authorizing the executive vice president and chief financial
officer to approve direct investments in the Vanguard or Dreyfus family of mutual funds.
The executive vice president and chief financial officer has been authorized to manage the
University's charitable remainder trusts and a portion of the charitable gift annuities in this
manner, utilizing the Dreyfus (or MPAM) Family of Funds.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance the University's Projects
The Regents approved an increase of up to $11.7 million, to $104.2 million, in the
amount outstanding under the commercial paper supported by a pledge of General
Revenues.
Authorization for Expenditures in the 2001-2002 Fiscal Year for the University of
Michigan Health System
The Regents approved temporary expenditure authorization for the University of
Michigan Health System for the 2001-2002 fiscal year beginning July 1, 2001.
Authorization for Expenditures in the 2001-2002 Fiscal Year for University
Operations
The Regents approved temporary expenditure authorization for University operations
for the 2001-2002 Fiscal Year beginning July 1, 2001.
Expenditure of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson Endowment
Funds for the Fiscal Year 2001-2002
The Regents approved the uses of the income of the Wolfson Endowment Funds for
the fiscal year 2001-2002, as outlined in the Regents Communication.
Ann Arbor Tech Park-3.11 Acres
The Regents approved the sale of a 3.11-acre strip of land located in the Ann Arbor
Tech Park to W. Paul Tippett, as described in the Regents Communication.


339




June Meeting, 2001


Modern Language Building, Hill Auditorium, Burton Tower Chiller and Electrical
Substation Upgrade
The Regents approved the Modern Language Building, Hill Auditorium, Burton
Tower Chiller and Electrical Upgrade Project as described in the Regents Communication
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Madison Building - Plant Building Services Department Relocation
The Regents approved a project to renovate the Madison Building for the relocation
of the Building Services Department as described in the Regents Communication and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Medical School Biomedical Science Research Building Chiller Plant
The Regents approved construction of a chilled water plant to provide conditioned
air for the Biomedical Science Research Building, at an additional cost of approximately
$13.5 million, as described in the Regents Communication.
Palmer Drive Development: Elevated Pedestrian Walkways and Lighting for
Palmer Drive
The Regents approved a project for construction of an elevated concrete walkway
and lighting on top of the planned Palmer Drive parking structure connecting the planned
pedestrian bridge over Washtenaw Avenue with the sidewalk leading to North University
Street, as described in the Regents Communication. They also approved issuing the
project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
North University Building Demolition Phase II
The Regents approved proceeding with the North University Building Demolition
Phase II project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Grounds Services Building
The Regents approved the Grounds Services Building project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that
bids are within the approved project budget.
University of Michigan Herbarium Relocation
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Herbarium Relocation Project as
described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


340




June Meeting, 2001


Kresge Business Administration Library Financial Analysis and Trading Facility
Classroom
The Regents approved the Kresge Business Administration Library Financial
Analysis and Trading Facility Classroom Project as described in the Regents
Communication.
Naming of the New Women's Gymnastics Facility
The Regents approved the naming of the new women's gymnastics facility as the
Donald R. Shepherd Women's Gymnastic Center.
Medical Science II Building Renovation of Laboratories 5723-5791
The Regents approved renovation of Laboratories 5723-5791 in the Medical Science
II Building as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project
for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Medical School Temporary Animal Facilities and Demolition of the Neuroscience
Building
The Regents approved the Medical School Temporary Animal Facilities and the
Neuroscience Building Demolition Project as described and authorized issuing the project
for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Washtenaw Community Health Organization
The Regents approved reappointment of Mr. Michael Dabbs and Ms. Donna Roth to
the board of directors of the Washtenaw Community Health Organization.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building Renovation and Addition:
Phase One of Science and Engineering Expansion and Renovation Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building
Renovation and Addition Phase One of the Science and Engineering Expansion and
Renovation Project as described and authorized commissioning The Stubbins Associates,
Inc. for the project's design.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory Building Expansion
and Renovation: Phase Two of the Science and Engineering Expansion and
Renovation Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory
Building Expansion and Renovation: Phase Two of the Science and Engineering
Expansion and Renovation Project as described in the Regents Communication and
authorized commissioning Lord, Aeck & Sargent for design of the project.
Revisions to Regents' Bylaws 5.01 ("Definitions") and 5.23 ("Clinical Instructional
Staff")
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved changes in Regents' Bylaws 5.01 and 5.23 to change the title of


341




June Meeting, 2001


"Clinical I Instructional Staff " to "Adjunct Clinical Instructional Staff' and "Clinical II
Instructional Staff' to "Clinical Instructional Staff." The revised bylaws follow:
Sec. 5.01. Definitions
As used in these bylaws:
1.   The term faculty shall include members of the teaching and research staff together
with the executive officers, the directors of various teaching, research, and library
units, research associates, curators, and persons with similar duties.
2.   The term professorial staff shall include professors, associate professors, and
assistant professors.
3.   The term governing faculty, when used in connection with a school or college,
shall include those members of the school or college who are professors,
associate professors, and assistant professors.  The governing faculty shall
include instructors and lecturers who hold appointments of one-half time or more;
provided, however, that such instructors and lecturers may vote at faculty
meetings only if they have held appointments for one or more years and are
authorized to vote by a majority of the professorial staff of the appropriate school
or college.  The governing faculty may include clinical professors, clinical
associate professors, clinical assistant professors, research scientists, associate
research scientists, assistant research scientists, research investigators, senior
research scientists, and senior associate research scientists when authorized by,
and in accordance with, the policies and bylaws of the appropriate school or
college.
4.   The term teaching staff shall include professors, associate professors, assistant
professors, instructors, lecturers, and teaching fellows.
5.   The terms teaching    ellow, teaching associte, teaching assistant, student
assistant, research assistant, technical assistant, laboratory assistant, and
assistant shall be used to designate junior appointees who participate in the
processes of teaching and research but do not possess faculty rank. Students in
these classifications shall have student status.
6.   The term university year, as used in connection with appointments of members of
the faculty and other personnel, contains any two terms in the calendar, as
defined for the year in question. Faculty members are expected to participate in
orientation, registration, and commencement.
Sec. 5.23. Clinical Instructional Staff
1.   Adjunct Clinical Instructional Staff  Any academic unit may appoint professional
practitioners in the community or within the University at appointment fractions
below  50 percent as adjunct clinical professors, adjunct clinical associate
professors, adjunct clinical assistant professors, adjunct clinical instructors, or
adjunct clinical lecturers to support the instructional program.
Appointments as adjunct clinical instructional staff are on an annual or shorter
basis and are without tenure. Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be
consistent with those for regular instructional staff to the extent applicable.
Adjunct clinical appointments and reappointments are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, or division and are approved
by the chancellor (Flint or Dearborn) and president.


342




June Meeting, 2001


2.   Clinical Instructional Staff  An academic unit may be authorized to appoint
clinical instructional staff to support its instructional program only if a policy
authorizing such appointments has been adopted by the school, college, or
division in accordance with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by the
appropriate provost, chancellor (Flint or Dearborn), president, and Board of
Regents.
Clinical appointments are at appointment fractions of 50 percent or greater and
are without tenure. The following titles may be used for clinical appointments:
clinical professor, clinical associate professor, clinical assistant professor, or
clinical instructor.
Appointments to the clinical track are for a fixed term, cannot exceed seven years
in duration, and nay be renewed. Appointment and promotion criteria shall be
consistent with those for the regular instructional staff to the extent applicable.
Further definition of the rights and responsibilities of clinical faculty, not
inconsistent with the bylaws of the Board of Regents, may be addressed by the
bylaws of the academic units.
Clinical appointments, reappointments, and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, or division and are approved
by the appropriate provost, chancellor (Flint or Dearborn), and president.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those
schools, colleges, and divisions that are authorized to make appointments to the
clinical instructional staff.
Approval of Academic Calendar for 2003-2004
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
approved the academic calendar for 2003-2004 for the Ann Arbor campus, as described in
the Regents Communication.
New Degree Program for the University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters ("Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice Studies")
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
approved a new undergraduate degree program, "Bachelor of Arts in Criminal Justice
Studies," to be offered by the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:30 a.m. The
next meeting will take place July 19-20, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


343




June Meeting, 2001


344




INDEX


A
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 296
Abdu, Hasina, Assistant Professor of Computer
and Information Science at UM-Dearborn,
75
Abriola, Linda M., Appointed Horace Williams
King Collegiate Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering, 217
Absolutely Karaoke, Purchasing contract with
approved, 14
Academic Calendar, Revision of calendars
approved for UM-Flint for Winter 2001 and
2002 and 2003 terms, 160; Academic
calendars for 2002-03 and 2003-04
approved for UM-Dearborn, 184; Approved
for Flint Campus for 2003-2004 and
2004-2005, 249; 2003-2004 Ann Arbor
campus calendar approved, 343
Achen, Christopher H., Scholarly activity leave,
302
Ackerman, Mark S., Associate Professor of
Information with tenure and Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science without tenure, 291
Adams, Fred C., Professor of Physics with
tenure, 287
Adams, Julian P., Sabbatical leave and duty off
campus, 302
Adams, Matthew D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 75
Adams, William J., Professor of Economics with
tenure and Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs in College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, 170
Adelman, Richard C., Retired, 173; Retirement
memoir, 174
Adkins, Randall S., Resigned, 307
Adler, Dorit D., Extended sick leave, 151;
Corrections made, 173
Adler, Peggy L., Lecturer I in English Language
and Literature, 114
Adler-Kassner, Linda, Resigned, 222
Admissions Lawsuit, Announcement of
landmark decision in U.S. District Court
upholding constitutionality of admissions
policy, 161; Comments from Regent
McGowan, 161
Adriaens, Peter, Professor of Civil and
Environmental Engineering with tenure, 287


Advincula, Arnold P., Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
259
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports,
Appointments made, 114
Affinito, John H., Resigned, 173
Afuah, Allan N., Associate Professor of
Corporate Strategy and International
Business with tenure, 287
Agho, Augustine O., Professor of Health Care
with tenure and Dean of UM-Flint School of
Health Professions and Studies, 291
Agnes Inglis Collegiate Professorship in
Psychology and Women's Studies,
Established, 19; Abigail J. Stewart
appointed, 73
Agranoff, Bernard W., Retirement furlough, 151
Ahmad, Amjad Z., Term completed, 87
Ahuja, Gautam, Associate Professor of
Corporate Strategy and International
Business with tenure, 291
Aikens, James E., Assistant Professor of Family
Medicine, 114; Assistant Professor of
Psychiatry, 299
Aikman, James W., Assistant Professor of Music
(Composition), 75
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Reappointed to active
status, 220
Akerlof, Carl W., Sabbatical leave, 120
Akers-Jordan, Cathy M., Lecturer in English at
UM-Flint, 218
Akingbehin, Kiumi, Acting Chair of Department
of Computer and Information Science, 149;
Reappointed acting Chair of Department of
Computer and Information Science at
UM-Dearborn, 292
Akutsu, Phillip D., Assistant Professor of
Psychology and Assistant Professor of
American Culture, 75
Al-Khafaji, Basim M., Resigned, 222
Albustani, Yousif I., Lecturer in Architecture,
172
Alcock, Susan E., Outside teaching leave, 23
Aldrich, Michael S., Deceased, 88; Memorial, 95
Aldridge, Andrew M., Term completed, 26
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Richard Carl Jelinek
Professor in Health Services Management.
and Policy, Professor of Health
Management and Policy with tenure,
Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management without
tenure, and Sr. Assoc. Dean of Academic


345




INDEX


Affairs in School of Public Health, 170;
Acting Dean of School of Public Health,
241; Term expired on School of Public
Health Executive Committee, 297
Alexander, Richard D., Retired, 173; Retirement
memoir, 174
Alfred, Dewitt C. III, Lecturer in Psychiatry, 150
Algase, Donna L., Professor of Nursing with
tenure, 290
Allen & Kwan Commercial, Lease agreement
with approved, 329
Allen, James W., Sabbatical leave, 302
Allen, Richard L., Professor of Communication
Studies with tenure, 18
Allen, Velma, Term expired on UM-Flint
Citizens Advisory Committee, 297
Allen, Virginia R., Reappointed Vice Chancellor
for Student Services and Enrollment
Management at UM-Flint, 292
Almaguer, Tomas, Outside teaching assignment,
81; Resigned, 307
Alvarado, Rudolph V., Lecturer II in Latino
Studies, 218
Alwin, Duane F., Sabbatical leave, 23; Duty off
campus, 81
Ameri, Afshin, Resigned, 25
Amidon, Kevin S., Lecturer II in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 119
Aminoff, David, Reappointed to active status,
80, 301
Amirdjanova, Anna, Assistant Professor of
Statistics, 298
Amrine, Frederick, Interim Chair of Department
of Slavic Languages and Literatures, 258
Anderson, Andrew A., Duty off campus, 81
Anderson, Barbara A., Duty off campus, 243
Anderson, Frank J., Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 119
Anderson, Joyce C., Resigned, 173
Anderson, Kermyt G., Lecturer II in Sociology,
75
Anderson, Mary L., Lecturer II in English, 21;
Term completed, 310
Anderson, Paul A., Lecturer II in American
Culture and Lecturer II in History, 75
Anderson, Rebecca, Term completed, 310
Anderson, Shannon W., Resigned, 307
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Appointed to
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters Executive Committee 9/00-8/03,
171; Associate Dean of UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, 292;


Unable to serve on UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive
Committee, 297
Andonyadis, Nephelie M., Associate Professor
of Theatre and Drama with tenure, 290
Andre, Naomi A., Assistant Professor of Music
(Musicology) and Assistant Professor of
Women's Studies, 172
Angur, Madhukar G., Appointed to UM-Flint
School of Management Executive
Committee 7/00-7/02, 114; Term expired on
UM-Flint School of Management Executive
Committee, 114; Appointed David M.
French Professor, 294
Animal Facilities, Project for temporary animal
facilities approved, 341
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc., Appointments
made, 171, 218
Ann Arbor, City of, Regents' resolution in honor
of Mayor Ingrid Sheldon, 134
Annich, Gail M., Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 79
Annual Financial Statements, Statements
submitted for year ended 6/30/2000, 95;
Financial statements for year ended
6/30/2000 adopted, 137
Annual Research Report, December 2000 report,
162
Antonuk, Larry E., Professor of Radiation
Oncology with tenure, 288
Anzai, Yoshimi, Resigned, 85
Aparicio, Frances R., Resigned, 85
Arbor Networks, License agreement with
approved, 132
Arcari, Betsy L., Lecturer in Nursing, 75
Architecture Buro, Amendment of contract with
approved, 158; Purchasing contracts with
approved, 266
Ardesta LLC, License agreement with approved,
192
Arenas, Juan D., Assistant Professor of Surgery,
114
Armendariz, Armando A., Term completed, 244
Armstrong, Wendy S., Clinical Instructor II in
Internal Medicine, 75
Arnheim, Rudolf, Collegiate professorship in
film studies named in his honor, 19
Arroyo, Jossianna, Scholarly activity leave, 81
Arruda, Ellen M., Sabbatical leave, 81
Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship, Brian P.
Coppola appointed, 217; Bunyan Bryant
appointed, 217; Laura J. Olsen appointed,


346




INDEX


217; Noel C. Perkins appointed, 217;
Richard B. Brown appointed, 217; Susan
H.C. Brown appointed, 217
Arthur W. Burks Collegiate Professor of
Information and Computer Science, Jeffrey
K. MacKie-Mason appointed, 20
Artur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in
Music in Piano, Martin E. Katz appointed,
294
Ascione, Frank J., Professor of Social and
Administrative Sciences with tenure, 290
Asgari, Mahdi, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 75; Appointed T.H.
Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 113
Ashe, Arthur J., III, Sabbatical leave canceled,
222; Additional appointment as Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering
without tenure in College of Engineering,
299
Askew, Kelly M., Duty off campus, 81
Aspnes, Lynne A., Reappointed Associate Dean
for Academic Affairs in School of Music,
292
Assanis, Dionissios N., Appointed Jon R. and
Beverly S. Holt Professor of Engineering,
73; Sabbatical leave, 81
Assistant Dean for Communications and
Marketing, Established in College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, 72
Assistant Dean for Global Student Development,
Established in School of Business
Administration, 72
Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education,
Established in Medical School, 294
Assistant Vice Provost and Director of Office of
Academic and Multicultural Initiatives, New
title for Vice Provost and Director of Office
of Academic and Multicultural Initiatives,
171
Associate Dean for Research, Established in
Division of Kinesiology, 72
Associate Provost for Academic Affairs, Title
changed to Senior Vice Provost for
Academic Affairs, 171
Associate Vice President for Administrative
Information Systems, Established, 72
Associate Vice President for Development,
Position established in Office of the Vice
President for Development, 294
Astor, Ron A., Sabbatical leave, 23


Aswad, Ahmed Adnan, Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 311
Athletic Department, FY 2000-01 operating
budget presented and discussed, 9
Attwood, John T.T., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 21
Augusta, Barbara M., Lecturer in Art, 114
Aurora, Taruna K., Clinical Instructor II in
Emergency Medicine, 75
Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Outside teaching
assignment, 302
Axelrod, Daniel, Sabbatical leave, 302
Axelson, Elizabeth R., Research leave, 120
Axsom, Richard H., Retirement furlough, 302
Ayyangar, Rita N., Personal leave, 23
B
Badhwar, Vinay, Lecturer in Surgery, 114
Badran, Sarah, Resigned, 124
Baer, Marc D., Term completed, 87
Baez, Thomas, Lecturer II in Psychology, 218
Bagozzi, Richard P., Outside teaching leave
extended through 5/31/01, 19; Resigned,
307
Bahti, Timothy H., Resigned, 307
Bailey, Charles W., Reappointed Chair of Department of Social Work at UM-Flint, 292
Bailey, Janet, Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Radiology, 299
Bailey, Richard W., Duty off campus, 302
Baker, Diane L., Clinical Associate Professor II
of Human Genetics, 79
Baker, James R., Jr., Appointed Ruth Dow Doan
Professor of Nanotechnology, 294
Ball, Deborah Loewenberg, Term expired on
School of Education Executive Committee,
296
Balogh, Linda M., Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 259
Banaszak Holl, Mark M., Sabbatical leave, 304
Bank One Corporation Assistant or Associate
Professorship in Business Administration,
Timothy L. Fort appointed, 20
Barald, Kate F., Sabbatical leave, 81
Barbarin, Oscar A., III, Outside teaching
assignment, 81; Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 311
Barbon, Maria S., Resigned, 124
Bardakjian, Kevork B., Professor of Armenian
Languages and Literatures with tenure and


347




INDEX


Professor of Slavic Languages and
Literatures with tenure, 287
Bardenstein, Carol B., Duty off campus, 121
Bardwell, James, Associate Professor of Biology
with tenure, 287
Barkauskas, Violet H., Appointed to School of
Nursing Executive Committee 7/01-6/02,
297
Barks, Debbie L., Personal leave, 81; Resigned,
307
Barlow, Robin, Retired, 26; Retirement memoir,
27
Barnard, Ruth M., Retirement furlough, 81
Barnes, Jill M., Lecturer in Nursing, 114
Barnett, Robert W., Sabbatical leave, 81
Baron, Desiree A., Term completed, 125
Barry, Anita K., Term expired on Committee on
Honorary Degrees, 75; Correction to
previously reported term expiration on
Committee on Honorary Degrees, 125
Barton, Marthalee, Extended sick leave, 151
Barvinok, Alexandre I., Professor of
Mathematics with tenure, 288
Bashir, Elena L., Resigned, 85
Bass, Christine K., Lecturer I in American
Studies, 218
Bassett, David R., Reappointed to active status,
80
Bassett, John R., Reappointed to active status,
80
Basten, Jay H., Lecturer in Kinesiology, 75
Basu, Saugata, Resigned, 25
Batra, Rajeev, Appointed to School of Business
Administration Executive Committee
7/1/00-6/30/02, 20
Bauer, Jill M., Lecturer in English at UM-Flint,
218
Bauman, Marcy L., Resigned, 85
Baumgardner, Kirk R., Resigned, 124
Beal, Scott W., Term completed, 87
Bean, Michael A., Term completed, 26
Beaudoin, Allan R., Reappointed to active
status, 120
Beck, James M., Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine with tenure, 288
Becker, Audrey L., Term completed, 223
Becker, Edward R., Clinical Professor II of Law,
21
Becker, Jill B., On sabbatical leave from College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Executive Committee, 297


Becker, Judith O., Appointed Glenn McGeoch
Collegiate Professor of Music, 20; Duty off
campus and research leave, 303
Becker, Marjorie C., Reappointed to active
status, 301
Becker, Mark P., Professor of Statistics without
tenure, 112; Resigned, 222
Beddor, Patrice S., Professor of Linguistics with
tenure, 288
Bee, Sheila S., Resigned, 307
Beer, David G., Professor of Surgery with tenure
and Professor of Radiation Oncology
without tenure, 288
Beke, Tibor, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 114
Beleh, Mustapha A., Resigned, 85
Bell, Betty L., Associate Professor of English
with tenure and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies with tenure and Associate
Professor of American Culture with tenure,
288
Belorousski, Pavel, Term completed, 244
Belville, William D., Resigned, 25
Ben-Shahar, Omri, Professor of Law with
tenure, 287; Sabbatical leave, 303
Bengtsson, Erling Blondal, Sabbatical leave, 23
Bennett, Paul E., Term completed, 153
Benson, Heidi P., Term completed, 310
Berardi, Rosemary R., Extended sick leave, 172
Beresford, Reverend Thuli, Appointed to
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
7/00-6/04, 75
Berger, Carl F., Retirement furlough, 121
Berger, Michael, Reappointed to UM-Flint
Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
6/01-5/04, 298
Berman, Paul R., Sabbatical leave, 303
Bernstein, Gary M., Associate Professor of
Astronomy with tenure, 288
Berry-Richardson, Dana S., Lecturer in Nursing,
150
Best, Cathryn A., Lecturer I in English Language
and Literature, 114
Beyer, Bonnie M., Associate Dean of School of
Education, 113
Bhattacharya, Mayukh, Reassignment agreement
with approved, 15
Bhattacharyya, Sugato, Associate Professor of
Finance with tenure, 287
Bhise, Vivek D., Professor of Industrial and
Manufacturing Systems Engineering without
tenure at UM-Dearborn, 258


348




INDEX


Bichakjian, Christopher K., Lecturer in
Dermatology, 298
Biddlecom, Ann E., Lecturer II in Sociology,
114
Bierbaum, Rosina M., Professor of Natural
Resources and Environmental Policy with
tenure and Dean of School of Natural
Resources and Environment, 291
Bieske, Thomas J., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 75
Billy, Edward J., Clinical Professor II of
Dentistry, 300
Binetti, Vincenzo A., Associate Professor of
Italian with tenure, 288; Duty off campus,
302
Bini, Gilberto, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 114
Binno, Shereen, Lecturer in Obstetrics and
Gynecology, 76; Clinical Instructor II in
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 242
Biology, Department of, Reorganized into two
departments in College of LSA-Department
of Molecular Cellular and Developmental
Biology and Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, 249
Biomedical Science Research Building,
Construction of chilled water plant
approved, 340
Bird, Gary R., Deceased, 125; Memorial, 128
Bird, Peter L., Resigned, 307
Birdsall, William C., Retirement furlough, 243
Birge, John R., Resigned, 153
Birmingham, William P., Sabbatical leave, 303
Biro, Matthew N., Scholarly activity leave, 81
Black, Liza E., Assistant Professor of American
Culture Program and Assistant Professor of
History, 21
Blackstone, Jerry O., Appointed to School of
Music Executive Committee 7/01-6/02, 297
Blackwell, Ann, Lecturer in Art, 114
Blair, David C., Professor of Computer and
Information Systems with tenure, 287
Blair, Sara B., Duty off campus, 260
Blakely, Everett J., Term expired on UM-Flint
School of Education and Human Services
Executive Committee, 75
Blank, Rebecca M., Appointed to Institute for
Social Research Executive Committee
7/01-6/04, 297
Blatt, Stuart D., Resigned, 173
Blaum, Caroline S., Scholarly activity leave, 121
Blinder, S. M., Reappointed to active status, 302


Bloembergen, Wendy E., Resigned, 307
Bloom, Bradley Roger, Associate Dean for
Administrative Affairs at School of Music,
295
Bloom, David A., Sabbatical leave, 23; Faculty
appointment and tenure transferred from
Department of Surgery to Department of
Urology, 295
Blouin, Francis X., Jr., Reappointed Director of
Bentley Historical Library, 292
Blouin, Joy Alexander, Retirement memoir, 312
Blumenthal, Susanna L., Assistant Professor of
Law, 76
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics,
Appointments made, 21; Correction made,
125
Bobek, Eileen M., Clinical Instructor II in
Emergency Medicine, 79
Boehnke, Michael Lee, Appointed Pharmacia
Research Professor in Biostatistics, 294
Bogart, Pamela S., Lecturer I in French, 114
Bohr, David F., Reappointed to active status, 80
Bokemeier, L. Charles, Personal leave, 23;
Resigned, 222
Bolig, Andrew D., Term completed, 223
Bolkosky, Sidney M., Sabbatical leave, 81;
Appointed to UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive
Committee 9/00-8/03, 171; Term expired on
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters Executive Committee, 171
Bollinger, Lee C., Extension of term in office in
letter of agreement through 1/31/06 and
salary increase agreed to, 142
Bolton, Mark W., Sabbatical leave, 81; Chair of
Department of Music and Art at UM-Flint,
292
Boluyt, Marvin J., Assistant Professor of
Kinesiology, 21
Bonner, Michael D., Duty off campus, 121
Borenstein, Johann, Senior Research Scientist,
300
Borer, Katarina T., Appointed to Division of
Kinesiology Executive Committee
7/01-6/03, 297
Bornstein, George J., Reappointed C.A. Patrides
Collegiate Professor of English, 73
Botti, Susan, Assistant Professor of Music
Composition, 21
Bouamane, Loubna, Lecturer II in French, 114
Boulton, Matthew L., Clinical Associate
Professor II of Epidemiology, 76


349




INDEX


Bound, John, Sabbatical leave, 81
Boureau, Alain, Appointed Thomas E.
Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of
Law, 20
Bowen, Eugene J., Lecturer I in Mathematics, 114
Bownik, Joanna M., Lecturer I in Chemistry, 114
Bownik, Marcin M., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 76
Boylan, Paul C., Term expired on Ann Arbor
Summer Festival Inc., 171
Bozoki, Andrea C., Resigned, 307
Braden, Spencer, Appointments made, 297
Brader, Ted, Assistant Professor of Political
Science, 21
Bradley, Bruce E., Retirement memoir, 175;
Retired, 222
Brady, Janice, Assistant Professor of Nursing, 22
Brake, Mary L., Term expired on Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Project Executive
Committee, 75
Brandon, Mark E., Resigned, 307
Brandwin, Marvin A., Reappointed to active
status, 23, 302
Brater, Enoch, Duty off campus, 303
Bratton, Susan L., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 76; Clinical
Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases (corrected from
previously reported Lecturer in Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases), 79
Bravo, Ana, Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
76
Bredle, Jason M., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 114; Term
completed, 310
Bredt Family Professorship in Engineering,
Established, 242
Breedon, Eric L., Term completed, 153
Brehob, Mark W., Lecturer in Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, 114
Brei, Diann E., Associate Professor of
Mechanical Engineering with tenure, 287
Brennan, Beverly, Resigned, 25
Brent, Elizabeth S., Term completed, 223
Bretz, Michael, Sabbatical leave, 303
Bretz, Stacey L., Resigned, 25
Bridges, Michael M., Term completed, 87
Briggs, Josephine P., Public service leave
extended through 4/30/02, 293
Bright, Charles C., Interim Director of
Residential College, 292
Bromberg, Kenneth W., Term completed, 310


Bromley, Michael Stuart, Appointed Howard R.
Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, 73
Broos, Antonius J.M., Extended sick leave, 81
Brophy, David J., Term expired on Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 75
Brophy, Patrick D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 218
Brown, Catherine, Scholarly activity leave, 81
Brown, Donald D., Lecturer in Art, 114
Brown, Donald R., Reappointed to active status,
220; Term completed, 223
Brown, James W., Sabbatical leave, 81
Brown, Kenneth R., Lecturer II in Social
Sciences, 220
Brown, Lorray S., Resigned, 25
Brown, Randall W., Appointed Thomas E.
Sunderland Fellow, 295; Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 299
Brown, Richard B., Appointed Arthur F.
Thurau Professor, 217; Interim Chair of
Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, 292
Brown, Susan H. C., Associate Dean for
Research in Division of Kinesiology, 73;
Appointed Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, 217
Brown, Susan S., Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 312
Brown, William B., Sabbatical leave, 81
Brusati, Celeste A., Term expired on Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 297
Bryant, Bunyan I., Jr., Appointed Arthur F.
Thurau Professor, 217
Budget, 2000-2001 Budget Book submitted, 96
Bulkley, Jonathan W., Appointed Peter W.
Wege Professor of Sustainable Systems, 20
Bullock, Stephen S., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 76
Bunchman, Timothy E., Resigned, 85
Buntain, William L., Clinical Professor II of
Surgery, 76
Burch, John B., Retirement furlough, 121
Burgos, Francesco, Term completed, 87
Burkam, David T., Lecturer II in Residential
College, 79
Burke, David T., Sabbatical leave, 243
Burs, Peggy, Assistant Dean for
Communications and Marketing, 113
Bus Service, Discussion of proposed initiative
between Transportation Services


350




INDEX


Department and Ann Arbor Transportation
Authority, 187; Further reports of
discussions between Transportation
Services and Ann Arbor Transportation
Authority, 237
Butler, J. Russell, Lecturer II in Biology, 298
Butler, Joan M., Memorial, 156
Buttar, Amna B., Resigned, 25
Butterfield, Barbara, Associate Vice President
for Human Resources and Affirmative
Action and Chief Human Resource Officer,
113; Change in effective date of
appointment, 174
Button, Gregory V., Term completed, 26
Buysse, Christina A., Resigned, 25
Byon, Andrew S., Lecturer II in Asian
Languages and Cultures, 114
C
C.A. Patrides Professorship in English, George
J. Bomstein reappointed, 73
C.C. Little Building, Approval of renovation
project for College of Pharmacy in C.C.
Little and Pharmacy Buildings, 96
Cabana, Michael D., Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 119
Cahill, Thomas J., Vice Chancellor for
Administration at UM-Flint, 295
Calarco, Margaret M., Associate Dean for
Clinical Affairs in School of Nursing, 216
Calhoun, Judith G., Associate Professor of
Health Management and Policy without
tenure, 149
Calixto, Tatiana M., Lecturer I in Spanish, 114
Callahan, Timothy K., Resigned, 307
Calloway, Licia M., Term completed, 153
Cameron, Kim S., Professor of Organizational
Behavior and Human Resource
Management with tenure, 18; Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human
Resource Management with tenure and
Professor of Education without tenure, 170
Caminker, Evan H., Government service leave,
23; Associate Dean for Academic Affairs of
Law School, 292
Campbell, John C., Scholarly activity leave, 172
Camper, Sally Ann, Professor of Internal
Medicine without tenure, 288
Canary, Richard D., Professor of Mathematics
with tenure, 288
Canceled meetings, January 2001, 185


Cancer Stem Cell Genomics, Inc., License
agreement with approved, 159
Cantor, Nancy E., Regents' Resolution in honor
of, 275; Given certificate of appreciation by
residents' council, 277
Capital Campaign, 2000-, Part 2 of update on
development and campaign planning, 50;
Update on development and campaign
planning, 46
Cardiovascular Center, Established within the
University of Michigan Health System, 102
Carey, Thomas E., Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology with tenure, 71;
Professor of Dentistry without tenure, 292
Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddhist
and Tibetan Studies, Donald S. Lopez Jr.
appointed, 20
Carlisle, Joanne F., Professor of Education with
tenure, 18
Carlos, Ruth J., Resigned, 85; Assistant
Professor of Radiology, 298
Carlson, Heather A., Appointed John Gideon
Searle Assistant Professor of Medicinal
Chemistry, 73; Assistant Professor of
Medicinal Chemistry, 76
Carnahan, Brice, Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 313
Carolyne K. Davis Collegiate Professorship in
Nursing, Named, 150
Caron, David, Associate Professor of French
with tenure, 288
Carpenter, Daniel P., Associate Professor of
Political Science with tenure, 288
Carpenter, James E., Faculty appointment and
tenure transferred from Department of
Surgery to Department of Urology, 295
Carr, Deborah S., Duty off campus, 23
Carroll, Mary Anne, Professor of Atmospheric
and Oceanic and Space Sciences with
tenure, 287; Term expired on Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 297; Sabbatical leave, 303
Carson, John S., Duty off campus, 23
Carson, Paul L., Appointed Collegiate Professor
of Basic Radiological Sciences, 294
Carter, Prudence L., Lecturer II in Sociology,
218
Carty, Linda E., Outside teaching assignment, 81
Caruso (Loch-Caruso), Rita L., Professor of
Toxicology with tenure, 290; Sabbatical
leave, 303


351




INDEX


Casement, Rose A., Appointed to UM-Flint
School of Education and Human Services
Executive Committee 7/00-6/02, 75
Castillo, Bienvenido, Lecturer in Ophthalmology
and Visual Sciences, 76
Castle, Valerie P., Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases with tenure, 288
Castor, C. William, Jr., Reappointed to active
status, 80
Caulfield, Sueann, Sabbatical leave and duty off
campus, 303
Cavallaro, Frank S., Lecturer in Radiology, 76
Cebeci, Mehmet O., Lecturer II in Turkish
Language, 76
Cellectar, LLC, License agreement with
approved, 182
Central Campus Recreation Building, Approval
of renovation of Kinesiology Laboratory, 96
Cernak, Margaret A., Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Law, 76
CESF, Annual report for Ann Arbor campus,
276; Annual report for Flint campus, 276
Cesnik, Carlos E.S., Associate Professor of
Aerospace Engineering with tenure, 291
CFI Group, Inc., Research agreement with
approved, 183
Chabot, Benjamin R., Assistant Professor of
Economics, 114
Chaffers, James A., Term expired on A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee, 296
Chamberlain, Jeffrey S., Resigned, 222
Chamberlin, John R., Associate Dean for Gerald
R. Ford School of Public Policy, 71
Chambers, Evan K., Associate Professor of
Music (Composition) with tenure, 290
Chambers, L. Ross, Retirement furlough, 303
Chan, Daniel Sai-Ping, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 76
Chan, June L., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology,
76
Chandler, William F., Faculty appointment and
tenure transferred from Department of
Surgery to Department of Neurosurgery, 295
Chang, Chia-Hao, Sabbatical leave, 23
Chang, Chun-Shu, Sabbatical leave, 121
Chang, Yi-Fen, Term completed, 223
Chapman, Daniel K., Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Emergency Medicine, 151
Chapman, J. Wehrley, Sabbatical leave, 121


Charpie, John R., Clinical Assistant Professor II
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
300
Chaves, Maria Del Sol, Lecturer I in Spanish,
115
Chemistry Building, Renovations approved for
Biophysics Research Division, 247
Chen, Li-Ling, Resigned as Assistant Professor
of Education at UM-Flint, 307
Chen, Serena, Outside teaching assignment, 152
Chen, Zhan, Assistant Professor of Chemistry,
21; Additional appointment as Assistant
Professor of Macromolecular Science and
Engineering in College of Engineering, 300
Chenoweth, Carol E., Clinical Associate
Professor II of Internal Medicine and
Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, 300
Cherng, John G., Sabbatical leave, 121
Cherry, Meghan M., Appointed to Committee on
Honorary Degrees, 114
Chervin, Ronald D., Associate Professor of
Neurology with tenure, 288
Chesney, David R., Lecturer in Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, 259
Chestek, Kenneth D., Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Law, 21
Chethik, Morton, Reappointed to active status,
302
Chey, William D., Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine with tenure, 288
Chhibber, Pradeep K., Resigned, 85
Chick, Stephen E., Associate Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering with
tenure, 287; Scholarly activity leave, 303
Childress, Anita G., Lecturer II in English, 76;
Term completed, 310
Chin, Bruce, Retirement memoir, 314
Cho, Eun-su, Duty off campus, 121; Duty off
campus extended through 5/31/02, 294
Chodacki, Deborah S., Term expired on School
of Music Executive Committee, 297
Choe, Hae Mi, Extended sick leave, 303
Christensen, A. Kent, Reappointed to active
status, 120
Christiansen, Richard L., Retired, 309;
Retirement memoir, 314
Christiansen, Roy H., Appointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors
10/00-9/01, 74
Chrite, Elrie LaBrent, Assistant Dean for Global
Student Development in School of Business
Administration, 73


352




INDEX


Chudnofsky, Carl R., Resigned, 85
Chupp, Timothy E., Professor of Biomedical
Engineering without tenure, 112
Cicciarelli, Louis A., Additional appointment as
Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies
Program, 300
Cimprich, Bernadine E., Appointed to School of
Nursing Executive Committee 9/01-6/02,
218
Claribel Baird Halstead Professorship in Music,
Philip Kerr appointed, 294
Clark, Noreen M., Reappointed Marshall H.
Becker Collegiate Professor of Public
Health, 113; Administrative leave, 303
Clark, Sherman J., Sabbatical leave, 303
Clark-MXR, Inc., Research agreement with
approved, 159
Clarke, John T., Senior Research Scientist in
Space Physics Research Laboratory, 300
Clarke, Roy, Sabbatical leave, 303
Clason, Todd A., Term completed, 310
Clauer, Calvin R., Senior Research Scientist in
Space Physics Research Laboratory, 300
Cleaver, Gerald W., Resigned, 307
Clemens, J. Quentin, Resigned, 85
Clemens, Judith M., Term completed, 87;
Lecturer II in Sociology, 218
Clements Library Associates Board of
Governors, Appointments made, 74
Clements Library Committee of Management,
Appointments made, 218
Clifford, John H., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics and Statistics at
UM-Dearborn, 115
Cloyd, Emily L., Retirement memoir, 176
Code of Conduct for University of Michigan
Licensees, Regents informed of recently
issued code, 233
Coffin, Edna A., Retirement furlough, 81
Cogswell, James A., Jr., Payment for services for
Artwork approved, 132
Cole, David E., Retired, 153; Retirement
memoir, 223
Cole, Elizabeth R., Associate Professor of
Women's Studies with tenure and Associate
Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies with tenure, 71; Duty off campus,
303
Cole, Theodore M., Reappointed to active status,
23; Reappointed to active status, 302
Coleman, Andrew M., Assistant Professor of
Economics, 76


College of Engineering Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 297
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Executive Committee, Appointments made,
114, 297
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 297
Collegiate Professorship in Basic Radiological
Sciences, Established, 242, Paul L. Carson
appointed, 294
Collier, Phillip J., Resigned, 153
Colling, Kathleen B., Resigned, 85
Collins, Derek B., Duty off campus, 303
Collins, Francis S., Public service leave
extended through 4/3/02, 294
Collins, Peter A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive
Studies Program, 21
Collins, Rudolph V., Appointed to UM-Flint
Citizens Advisory Committee 7/01-6/05, 297
Combi, Michael R., Senior Research Scientist in
Space Physics Research Laboratory, 301
Commercial Paper Program, Authorization for
increase of up to $4.7 million to finance part
of University's share of Forest Avenue
Parking Structure, 230; Approval of increase
of up to $11.7 million in amount outstanding
under the commercial paper supported by
pledge of general revenues, 339
Committee on Honorary Degrees, Appointments
made, 75, 114; Correction made, 125
Community Economic Development and
Information Technology (CEDit) Inc.,
Research subcontract agreement with
approved, 334
Comninou, Maria A., Retired, 26; Retirement
memoir, 27
Conflict of Interest Contract, Amendment to
existing lease with First Properties
Associates approved, 14; Purchasing
contract between the University of Michigan
and Absolutely Karaoke approved, 14;
License agreement between the University of
Michigan and Nanobiologics LLC approved,
15; Reassignment agreement between the
University of Michigan and Mayukh
Bhattacharya and Alejandro F. Gonzalez and
Shriram Kulkarni and Pinaki Mazumder
approved, 15; License agreement between
the University of Michigan and MedEc LLC
approved, 16; Payment for services of What
Is It This Week (University Housing)
approved, 97; Payment for services of What


353




INDEX


Is It This Week (Comprehensive Cancer
Center) approved, 98; Payment for services
of What Is It This Week (Michigan Union
Billiard Room) approved, 98; Payment for
services of What Is It This Week (Women's
Basketball Program) approved, 98; License
agreement between the University of
Michigan and Keracure LLC approved, 99;
License agreement between the University of
Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics Inc.
approved, 99; License agreement between
the University of Michigan and MEMS
Technology LLC approved, 100; License
agreement between the University of
Michigan and Quantum Signal LLC
approved, 101; Research agreement between
the University of Michigan and Tal
Materials Inc. approved, 101; Option
agreement between the University of
Michigan and TheraSonics Inc. approved,
102; Purchasing contract with Life Support
Services Inc. approved, 131; License
agreement between the University of
Michigan and Arbor Networks approved,
132; Payment for services for Artwork by
James Cogswell Jr. approved, 132; Research
agreement between the University of
Michigan and HealthMedia Inc. approved,
133; Research agreement between the
University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission approved, 133; Amendment of
contract with Architecture Buro approved,
158; Research agreement between the
University of Michigan and Michigan State
University approved, 158; License
agreement between the University of
Michigan and Cancer Stem Cell Genomics
Inc. approved, 159; Research agreement
between the University of Michigan and
Clark-MXR Inc. approved, 159; Renewal of
two existing leases with First Martin
Corporation approved, 181; License
agreement between the University of
Michigan and Cellectar LLC approved, 182;
Research agreement between the University
of Michigan and CFI Group Inc. approved,
183; Research agreement between the
University of Michigan and Nephros Inc.
approved, 183; License agreement with
Xeotron Corporation approved, 191; License
agreement with Ardesta LLC approved, 192;
Materials transfer agreement between with


Vojo Deretic approved, 192; Materials
transfer agreement with Tularik Inc.
approved, 192; License agreement with
Learner-Centered Technologies LLC
approved, 193; Research agreement with
Curis Inc. approved, 193; Research
agreement with Molecular Therapeutics Inc.
approved, 193; Amendment of purchasing
contract with Vaassen Sheep Farm
approved, 231; Purchasing contract with
Elaine S. Wilson approved, 232; Purchasing
contract with Valley View Farm approved,
232; Payment for services of Global Design
approved, 249; Purchasing contract with
Results Based Leadership Group Inc.
approved, 249; Purchasing contracts with
Architecture Buro approved, 266; License
agreement with Living Text LLC approved,
267; Membership agreement between the
University of Michigan Center for Wireless
Integrated Microsystems (WIMS) and
Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS)
approved, 267; Research subcontract
agreement between the University of
Michigan and TSRL Inc. approved, 267;
Lease agreement with Allen & Kwan
Commercial approved, 329; Agreement
between the University of Michigan and
MCE Optoelectronics approved, 330;
Purchasing contract with Emagware
Corporation approved, 330; Purchasing
contract with Praja Inc. approved, 330;
License agreement between the University of
Michigan and Rebus Inc. approved, 331;
License option agreement between the
University of Michigan and Oncolmmune
Ltd. approved, 331; License agreement
between the University of Michigan and
Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS) Inc.
approved, 332; License agreement between
the University of Michigan and TheraSonics
Inc. approved, 333; Research agreement
between the University of Michigan and the
Waterford Project approved, 333; Research
subcontract agreement between the
University of Michigan and Community
Economic Development and Information
Technology (CEDit) Inc. approved, 334;
Subcontract agreement between the
University of Michigan and Veridian ERIM
International Inc. approved, 334;
Subcontract agreement between the


354




INDEX


University of Michigan and NOAA/Great
Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory
approved, 335
Conforth, Bruce M., Lecturer I in American
Studies, 218
Conjeevaram, Hari S., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 218; Previously reported Lecturer
in Internal Medicine corrected to Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, 259
Connell, Cathleen M., Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs at School of Public
Health, 241
Conrad, Brian D., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 76; Associate Professor of
Mathematics with tenure, 288
Consens, Flavia B., Lecturer in Neurology, 21
Constant, John G., Sabbatical leave, 81
Cook, James W. Jr., Assistant Professor of
American Studies, 298
Cooley, Melanie, Term completed, 87
Cooling, Laura, Clinical Assistant Professor II of
Pathology, 115
Coon, Jane G. Wilson, Retirement memoir, 315
Coon, Minor J., Change in dates of previously
reported phased retirement, 260
Cooney, Kathleen A., Faculty appointment and
tenure transferred from Department of
Surgery to Department of Urology, 295
Cooper, George H., Lecturer III in English
Language and Literature and Lecturer I in
Comprehensive Studies, 23; Additional
appointment as Lecturer I in Comprehensive
Studies Program, 300
Cope, Virgil W., Interim Chair of Department of
Chemistry in UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, 216
Coppola, Brian P., Appointed Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, 217
Corbett, James R., Transfer of appointment and
tenure from Department of Internal
Medicine to Department of Radiology, 73
Cornish, Alison, Research leave, 81
Coronel-Molina, Serafin M., Resigned, 308
Cortina, Lilia M., Assistant Professor of
Psychology, 76; Assistant Professor of
Women's Studies, 220
Cotera, Maria E., Assistant Professor of Latino
Studies and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, 298
Coulter, Kevin P., Lecturer II in Physics, 115;
Term completed, 125
Countryman, Matthew J., Duty off campus, 23


Cowen, Roy C., Jr., Duty off campus, 220
Cox, Taylor, Jr., Resigned, 124
Craig, Kathryn A., Term completed, 26
Crawford, David E., Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 315
Cresti, Diana M., Research leave, 152;
Resigned, 308
Crocker, Keith J., Professor of Mathematics
without tenure, 19; Reappointed Waldo O.
Hildebrand Professor in Risk Management
and Insurance, 295
Croley, Steven P., Outside teaching leave, 23
Cross, John G., Retired, 309
Crow, Thomas E., Term completed, 26
Crowell, Elizabeth, Sabbatical leave, 81
Crowfoot, James E., Reappointed to active
status, 151
Croxton, Tom A., Retirement furlough, 121;
Retired, 309; Retirement memoir, 316
Csengeri, Karen E., Term completed, 153
Cullum-Swan, Betsy, Lecturer II in Sociology,
115; Term completed, 310
Curis Inc., Research agreement with approved,
193
Curran, Lisa M., Duty off campus, 152;
Resigned, 308
Curtis, George C., Reappointed to active status,
23
D
D'Arms, John H., Retirement furlough, 23;
Retired, 26
Dabak, Shubhangi, Lecturer I in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 115
Dahlke, Richard M., Retired, 244; Retirement
memoir, 261
Damato, Constance J., Retirement memoir, 224
Damour, Lisa K., Resigned, 244
Dance, William H., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors
10/00-9/01, 74
Dandekar, Hemalata, Sabbatical leave, 121;
Appointed to A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning Executive
Committee 7/01-6/03, 296
Daniels, J. Yolande, Outside teaching
assignment, 121; Resigned as assistant
professor of architecture, 308
Darwall, Stephen L., Appointed John Dewey
Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, 20


355




INDEX


Das, Suman, Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, 76
Das, Sunil K., Reappointed to active status, 80
Davenport, Linda K., Resigned, 308
David M. French Professor, Madhukar G. Angur
appointed, 294
Davidson, Natalie S., Lecturer II in Psychology,
76
Davies, Douglas D., Clinical Associate Professor
II of Social Work, 79
Davies, Peter H., Duty off campus, 243
Davis, Gerald F., Appointed to School of
Business Administration Executive
Committee 7/01-6/03, 296
Davis, Kirk L., Lecturer I in English Language
and Literature, 115
Davis, Matthew M., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 21
Davis, Wayne K., Retired, 244; Retirement
memoir, 244
Davlantes, Alexander G., Reappointed to
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory
Board 6/01-5/04, 298
Dawes, Lillian G., Associate Professor of
Surgery with tenure, 258
Dawson, Emily C., Term completed, 223
Dawson, Laura A., Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Radiation Oncology, 220
Day, Mark L., Associate Professor of Surgery
with tenure, 288
Dean, Carolyn A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive
Studies Program, 300
Dean, Margaret L., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 298
Deason, Lucinda M., Resigned, 86
Deaths, Deaths of students Alisa Moore and
Byung Soo Kim announced and discussed,
141
Dechow, Patricia M., Professor of Accounting
with tenure, 287
de Ferranti, Hugh B.Z., Duty off campus, 303
Degrees, 2000-2001, Approval of August 2000
doctoral degree list and final degree lists for
April and July 2000 commencements and
changes to previously approved degree lists,
30; Master of Arts in Teaching degree
program approved for UM-Dearborn School
of Education, 31; Bachelor of Science in
Software Engineering degree approved for
UM-Dearborn, 160; Final degree lists for
December 2000 commencement and
changes to previously approved degree lists


approved, 229; Master of Science in
Environmental Science degree program
established at UM-Dearborn, 233; Approval
of doctoral degree list for April 2001
commencement and changes to previously
approved degree lists, 264; Bachelor of Arts
in Criminal Justice Studies degree program
approved for Dearborn College of Arts
Sciences and Letters, 343
DeGroot, Frederick A., Lecturer in Earth and
Resource Science at UM-Flint, 218
Dekker, Eugene E., Reappointed to active status,
80; Reappointed to active status, 302
Delanghe, Gay A., Sabbatical leave, 303
Delbanco, Francesca B., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 115
Delgado, Jose E., Lecturer in Dentistry, 115
Deloria, Philip J., Associate Professor of History
with tenure and Associate Professor of
American Culture with tenure, 216
Demiralp, Burak, Lecturer in Dentistry, 172
Dennis, Robert G., Assistant Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, 298
Dennison, Joseph D., Appointed Marcus L.
Ward Professor of Dentistry, 217
Dentistry, School of, Position of Associate Dean
for Administration and Graduate Programs
established, 19; Position of Associate Dean
for Research established, 149
Denver, Robert J., Sabbatical leave, 303
Depository and Disbursement Accounts,
Resolution approved for establishing such
accounts with financial institutions, 264
Deretic, Vojo, Materials transfer agreement with
approved, 192
Derksen, Hendrikus G., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 76
Dershem, Thomas O., Resigned, 86
Deskins, Donald R., Jr., Retirement furlough, 81
Devejian, Neil S., Resigned, 86
deVries, Dan N., Lecturer II in Physics, 115
DeVries, Heather C., Lecturer I in Chemistry,
115
DeYoung, Glenn W., Jr., Professor of Dance
with tenure, 290; Interim Chair of
Department of Dance, 292; Term expired on
School of Music Executive Committee, 297
DeYoung, Raymond K., Appointed to School of
Natural Resources and Environment
Executive Committee 6/1/00-5/31/02, 21
Dhingra, Rajnish K., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 76


356




INDEX


Dickinson, Chris J., Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases with tenure, 289
Dickinson, Mark E., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 115
Dickinson, Mark E.T., Appointed T.H.
Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 113
Diedrich, Duane N., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors
10/00-9/01, 74
Diehl, Kathleen M., Lecturer in Surgery, 298
Dierker, Steven B., Research leave, 303
Dignas, Beate D., Duty off campus and scholarly
activity leave, 303
Dimaraki, Eleni V., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 76
Dimendberg, Edward, Scholarly activity leave,
81
Diouf, Mamadou, Professor of History with
tenure and Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies with tenure, 71;
Appointment date corrected, 153
DiPaolo, Don G., Resigned, 86
Director, Stephen W., Reappointed Robert J.
Vlasic Dean of Engineering, 18
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection
Committee, Appointments made, 297
Dixon, Jack E., Co-Director of Life Sciences
Institute, 112, 113; Appointed Minor J.
Coon Collegiate Professor of Biological
Chemistry, 294
Dixon, Travis L., Duty off campus, 303
Dmitrieva, Nina B., Lecturer II in Residential
College, 115
Dobbs, John W., Resigned, 25
Docherty, Carrie L., Resigned, 86
Doerr, Timothy D., Resigned, 86
Dolan, David F., Senior Associate Research
Scientist, 301
Dolan, Robert J., Professor of Marketing with
tenure and Dean of School of Business
Administration, 291
Dominguez, Kathryn Mary, Associate Professor
of Economics without tenure, 72; Term
expired on Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy Executive Committee, 297
Domino, Edward F., Reappointed to active
status, 151
Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professor of
Mathematics, Philip J. Hanlon appointed, 20
Donald R. Shepherd Women's Gymnastics
Center, Named, 341


Dorantes, Deanna M., Resigned, 222
Downs, Laura L., Scholarly activity leave, 220
Drayson, S. Roland, Retirement furlough, 303
Dreiser, Petra, Term completed, 153
Dreslinski, Gerald R., Resigned, 308
Drouin, Jacqueline, Lecturer in Physical Therapy
forUM-Flint, 115
Duell, Elizabeth A., Retired, 87
Duenyas, Izak, Appointed John Psarouthakis
Research Professor of Manufacturing
Management, 20
Dufey, Gunter, Sabbatical leave, 121
Dungan, Kelli A., Medical leave, 23
Dunkle, Ruth E., Term expired on Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 297
Dunlap, Paul V., Associate Professor of Biology
without tenure, 149
Dunlop, Charles E.M., Reappointed Chair of
Department of Philosophy at UM-Flint, 292
Duran, Mesut, Assistant Professor of
Technology for UM-Dearborn, 115
Dutton, Jane E., Reappointed William Russell
Kelly Professor in Business Administration,
295; Term expired on School of Business
Administration Executive Committee, 296
Dwamena, Ben A., Clinical Instructor II of
Radiology, 172
Dyer, Judy A., Lecturer II in English, 115
Dzhamay, Anton, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 115
Dziekan, Julie A., Assistant Dean of U-M
Dearborn School of Management, 216
E
E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn
Professorship in Internal Medicine and
Oncology, Stephen J. Weiss reappointed,
295
E.H. Kraus Building, Renovation of Multiple
Laboratories Project approved, 266
East Medical Campus (East Ann Arbor Health
Center), East Ann Arbor Surgery Center and
Clinics Project approved and architect
appointed, 98
East Quadrangle, Fire detection alarm system
and electrical system replacement project
approved, 180
Eber, Robert M., Clinical Associate Professor II
of Dentistry, 301


357




INDEX


Eccles, Jacquelynne S., Scholarly activity leave,
303
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Department
of, Created by reorganization of Department
of Biology, 249
Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, Donald
J. Herzog appointed, 20
Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking and
Finance, Anjan V. Thakor reappointed, 295
Ege, Seyhan N., Retired, 309; Retirement
memoir, 316
Egger, Rebecca M., Term completed, 173
Eguia, Immaculada, Lecturer I in Spanish, 115
Eklund, Stephen A., Sabbatical leave, 121
Ekotto, Frieda, Sabbatical leave, 121
El-Magharbel, Ibrahim, Resigned, 124
Eldersveld, Samuel J., Term completed, 223
Eley, Geoffrey H., Appointed Sylvia L. Thrupp
Collegiate Professor of Comparative
History, 73; Sabbatical leave and duty off
campus, 303
Eliav, Milka, Lecturer II in Hebrew Language,
150
Eliav, Yaron Z., Assistant Professor of Rabbinic
Literature, 115; Appointed Jean and Samuel
Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature,
242; Duty off campus, 304
Elliker, Calvin H., Deceased, 223; Memorial,
228
Elliot S. Valenstein Collegiate Professorship in
Behavioral Neuroscience, Named, 294
Ellis, Dennis F., Appointed to UM-Flint School
of Management Executive Committee
7/99-7/01, 114
Ellis, James H., Faculty appointment and tenure
transferred from Department of Surgery to
Department of Urology, 295
Ellis, John S., Assistant Professor of Music, 21
Ellison, Julie K., Term expired on Ann Arbor
Summer Festival Inc. Board of Trustees,
218
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Sabbatical leave, 24
Emagware Corporation, Purchasing contract
with approved, 330
Emerson, Bob, Appointed to UM-Flint Citizens
Advisory Committee 7/00-6/04, 75
Emr, Scott D., Co-Director of Life Sciences
Institute, 113
Engelke, David R., Assistant Dean for Graduate
and Postdoctoral Studies at the Medical
School, 112
England, Anthony W., Sabbatical leave, 304


Environment, Presentation on Sustainability
initiatives, 162
Eppinger, Michael J., Lecturer in Surgery, 76
Epstein, Karen A., Lecturer II in Psychology,
242
Erickson, Laurel M., Resigned, 153
ERIM Professorship in Engineering, Established,
73
Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professorship in
Paleontology, Established, 19; Philip D.
Gingerich appointed, 73
Ertel, Inta J., Retirement furlough, 220
Erwin, Mary C., Interim Director of University
Press, 73
Essene, Eric J., Appointed William C. Kelly
Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences,
113
Evans, Billy J., Outside teaching leave, 24
Evans, Christine E., Term completed, 26
Everett E. Berg Professorship of Business
Administration, Jan Svejnar reappointed,
295
Evrard, August E., Professor of Physics with
tenure, 288
Executive or Non-Formal (Informal) Session
Motion, July 2000 meeting, 12; October
2000 meeting, 134; November 2000
meeting, 160; December 2000 meeting, 184;
Approved for March 2001 meeting, 249;
April 2001 meeting, 270; June 2001
meeting, 335
Expenditures, Temporary authorization
approved for University operations for
2001-2002 fiscal year, 339; Temporary
expenditure authorization approved for
Health System for 2001-2002 fiscal year,
339
External Auditors, Reappointment of
PricewaterhouseCoopers as auditors for
2000-01, 264
Eyler, Ann E., Resigned, 86
F
Faculty promotions, Comments on and approval
of 2001 annual promotions, 276
Fader, Darrell J., Resigned, 308
Faerber, Gary J., Faculty appointment and tenure
transferred from Department of Surgery to
Department of Urology, 295
Faires, Nora H., Outside teaching assignment, 82


358




INDEX


Fakhouri, Hani I., Retired, 26; Retirement
memoir, 28
Falk, Michael L., Assistant Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, 76;
Assistant Professor of Materials Science and
Engineering and Assistant Professor of
Physics, 119
Fancher, Paul S., Retirement memoir, 126
Farghaly, Amel A., Lecturer II in English, 76;
Term completed, 310
Farhat, David W., Clinical Instructor II in
Emergency Medicine, 150
Farjo, Ayad A., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, 76
Farjo, Qais A., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, 119
Farkas, Gavril M., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 115
Farley, W. Reynolds, Reappointed Otis Dudley
Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology,
73; Retirement furlough, 220
Farrand, William R., Retired, 26
Farrehi, Janice G., Resigned, 124
Fatica, Richard A., Resigned, 86
Fearon, Eric R., Professor of Internal Medicine
with tenure, Professor of Human Genetics
without tenure, and Professor of Pathology
without tenure, 289
Feeley-Harnik, Gilliam, Duty off campus, 24
Feigal, Robert J., Associate Dean for Graduate
Programs and Facilities in School of
Dentistry, 20
Feldman, Martha S., Professor of Political
Science with tenure and Professor of Public
Policy with tenure, 288
Feliu, Fernando, Sabbatical leave, 152
Feng, Jin, Lecturer I in Chinese Language, 76;
Term completed, 310
Ferrer, Patricia, Lecturer in Art, 115
Fessler, Jeffrey A., Transfer of appointment and
tenure from Department of Internal
Medicine to Department of Radiology, 73
Fessler, Kathryn B., Extended sick leave, 82
Feuerwerker, Yi-tsi, Reappointed to active
status, 80
Fiber Optic Infrastructure, Extension of fiber
optic network approved, 266
Figlewicz, Raymond E., Term completed, 87
Financial Report, Report and Supplemental
Schedules submitted for year ended 6/30/00,
183; Supplemental information to certified
audited financial report of Board in Control


of Intercollegiate Athletics submitted for
year ended 6/30/00, 246
Fine, Paul L., Clinical Associate Professor II of
Internal Medicine, 301
Fine, Sidney, Honored at Regents' Meeting, 274;
Retired, 309; Retirement memoir, 317
Finholt, Thomas A., Senior Associate Research
Scientist in School of Information, 301
Finkenstaedt, William C., Reappointed to
Clements Library Associates Board of
Governors 10/00-9/01, 74
Finn, William G., Clinical Associate Professor II
of Pathology, 301
First Martin Corporation, Renewal of two
existing leases with approved, 181
Fischbach, Peter S., Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 79
Fischer, Claudie D., Term completed, 310
Fishman, Robert I., Appointed to A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee
7/01-6/03, 296
Fisk, Lennard A., Chair of Department of
Atmospheric and Oceanic and Space
Sciences, 170
Fitzgerald, James T., Assistant Professor of
Medical Education, 76
Flackett, Jennifer A., Lecturer II in Film and
Video Studies, 76
Flaherty, Kevin R., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 76
Flannagan, Michael J., Senior Research Scientist
in University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, 301
Flax, Neil M., Sabbatical leave, 82; Previously
reported sabbatical leave corrected to
retirement furlough, 221; Previously
reported retirement furlough corrected to
sabbatical leave, 307
Fleisher, David, Appointed to College of
Pharmacy Executive Committee 6/01-11/01,
297
Flemming, Dexter K., Lecturer in Dentistry, 76
Flint, Andrew, Sabbatical leave, 243
Flint, Leroy E., Lecturer in Computer Science
and Engineering Science and Physics at
UM-Flint, 218
Flores, Christopher J., Term expired on UMFlint Citizens Advisory Committee, 297
Florida, Nancy K., Appointment to Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board canceled, 88


359




INDEX


Florido-Berrocal, Joaquin, Lecturer I in Spanish,
115
Flowers, Judith M., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics and Statistics, 21
Fluhr, Nicole M., Term completed, 310
Flynn, Gordon L., Retirement furlough, 82
Flynn, Joseph T., Resigned, 153
Fogel, Robert D., Appointed Lewis E.
Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer
Professor of Fungal Taxonomy, 294
Foley-Reickert, Eileen M., Resigned, 308
Follansbee, George L. Jr., Assistant Dean for
Development and Alumni Relations in Law
School, 217
Fomin, Sergey, Duty off campus, 121; Professor
of Mathematics with tenure, 288
Fontes, Fernanda G., Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Dentistry, 76
Football, Discussion of new ticket pricing plan,
236
Foran, Michael F., Associate Professor of
Accounting without tenure at UM-Dearborn,
291
Ford, Geraldine Bledsoe, Term expired on
Distinguished Alumni Service Award
Selection Committee, 297
Ford, Richard I., Duty off campus, 82
Foren, John, Appointed to UM-Flint Channel 28
Community Advisory Board 6/01-5/04, 298
Fornaess, John E., Reappointed Frederick W.
Gehring Collegiate Professor of
Mathematics, 295
Forrester, Kathleen A., Term completed, 87
Forsdyke, Sara L., Personal leave, 121
Fort, Timothy L., Appointed Bank One
Corporation Assistant Professor of Business
Administration, 20; Associate Professor of
Business Law with tenure, 287
Fortner, Richard W., Reappointed to active
status, 120
Fosdick, Glenn A., Term expired on UM-Flint
Citizens Advisory Committee, 75
Foss, Merle L., Duty off campus and retirement
furlough, 24
Foster, Thomas C., Appointed to Committee on
Honorary Degrees 7/00-6/03, 75; Sabbatical
leave, 82; Professor of English with tenure
at UM-Flint, 290
Foth, Tatyana E., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 115
Fowlkes, J. Brian, Associate Professor of
Radiology with tenure, 258


Fox, Kenneth A., Lecturer in Surgery, 76
Fox, Merritt B., Appointed Alene and Allan F.
Smith Professor of Law, 113; Outside
teaching assignment and sabbatical leave,
304
Foxman, Betsy, Sabbatical leave, 304
Frances E. VanVlack Professorship in Materials
Science and Engineering, Renamed L.H.
and F.E. VanVlack Professorship in
Materials Science and Engineering, 258
Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professorship of
Law, Richard O. Lempert reappointed, 73
Francis, Anthony H., Duty off campus and
sabbatical leave, 304
Francis, Jacqueline R., Instructor in History of
Art, 76; Instructor in History of Art and
Instructor in Afroamerican and African
Studies, 79; Appointment corrected to
Assistant Professor of History of Art and
Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, 172
Frank G. Millard Professorship in Law, Peter K.
Westen reappointed, 295
Frankel, Richard M., Resigned, 86
Franklin, Glen A., Assistant Professor of
Surgery, 76
Franz, Michael G., Assistant Professor of
Surgery, 115
Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professor of
Hypertension, Stevo Julius reappointed, 295
Frederick W. Gehring Collegiate Professorship
in Mathematics, John E. Fornaess
reappointed, 295
Fredericks, Jennifer A., Resigned, 86
Fredricksen, Erik, Sabbatical leave, 304
Freedman, Jonathan E., Sabbatical leave and
duty off campus, 304
Freeman, Lee A., Assistant Professor of
Management Information Systems at
UM-Dearborn, 220
Freiberg, Andrew A., Resigned, 86
French, David M., New Classroom and Office
Building named David M. French Hall, 31
Frey, Kirk A., Transfer of appointment and
tenure from Department of Internal
Medicine to Department of Radiology, 73
Friedman, Richard D., Sabbatical leave, 121
Friesen, Lauren D., Chair of Department of
Theatre at UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, 72; Interim Chair of Department
of Communication in UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, 216


360




INDEX


Frumkin, Jeffery R., Assistant Provost in Office
of the Provost and Executive Vice President
for Academic Affairs, 218
Fulcher, Ian, Lecturer I in English Language and
Literature, 115
Fullen, Douglas R., Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Pathology, 76
Fullerton, Judith, Appointed to UM-Flint
Citizens Advisory Committee 7/00-6/04, 75
Fulton, Alice, Research leave, 82; Research
leave, 243
Fulton, William E., Duty off campus, 304
Funds Functioning as Endowment
(quaisi-endowment funds), Resolution
approved for confirmation of authority of
EVPCFO to establish funds functioning as
endowment, 246
G
G.G. Brown Building, Boiler Replacement
project approved, 230
Gaines, Kevin K., Duty off campus, 121
Gaither, Caroline A., Appointed to Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board 9/01-8/04, 297
Galien, Patricia J., Lecturer II in English, 21;
Term completed, 310
Galifianakis, Sophia, Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 298
Gannett, Diana, Professor of Music (String Bass)
with tenure, 291
Garcia Santo-Tomas, Enrique, Outside teaching
assignment and duty off campus, 306
Garcia, George A., Term expired on College of
Pharmacy Executive Committee, 297
Garcia, Sofia, Lecturer I in Spanish, 115
Gardiner, Antonia L., Term completed, 310
Gariepy, Cheryl E., Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 298
Garland, Brian, Appointed to UM-Flint Channel
28 Community Advisory Board 6/01-5/04,
298
Garrett, Mark E., Term completed, 87
Garrity, Thomas A., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 115; Resigned, 308
Garvin, Charles D., Retirement furlough, 121;
Retired, 309; Retirement memoir, 317
Gates, Sondra S., Lecturer I in English Language
and Literature, 218
Gateward, Frances K., Assistant Professor of
Film and Video Studies and Assistant


Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, 150
Gauger, Virginia T., Clinical Assistant Professor
II of Anesthesiology, 150
Gay, Steven E., Lecturer in Internal Medicine,
77; Previously reported Lecturer in Internal
Medicine corrected to Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Internal Medicine, 150
Gay, Tamara L., Extended sick leave, 304
Gee, Gilbert C., Resigned, 124
Gelb, Douglas J., Clinical Professor II of
Neurology, 301
Gelehrter, Thomas D., Term expired on Medical
School Executive Committee, 297
Gell, Nancy M., Lecturer II in Inteflex, 115
Gelman, Susan A., Duty off campus, 121;
Sabbatical leave, 304
General Fund Budget, Presentation by Provost
Cantor on proposed Ann Arbor FY2000-01
General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates, 4; Presentation by
Chancellor Little on proposed Dearborn
Campus FY2000-01 General Fund
Operating Budget and Tuition and Fee
Rates, 6; Presentation by Chancellor Mestas
on proposed Flint Campus FY2000-01
General Fund Operating Budget and Tuition
and Fee Rates, 7; Proposed Ann Arbor FY
2000-01 General Fund Operating Budget
approved, 13; Proposed Dearborn Campus
FY 2000-01 General Fund Operating
Budget approved, 13; Proposed Flint
Campus FY 2000-01 General Fund
Operating Budget approved, 13
George E. Wantz M.D. Professor in the History
of Medicine, Howard Markel appointed, 20
George W. Morley Collegiate Professorship in
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Edward
Goldberg appointed, 242
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, New
joint degree program approved with College
of LSA for 3 joint Ph.D. degrees, 184
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Executive Committee, Appointments made,
297
Gere, Anne R., Sabbatical leave, 304
Gessner, Ingrid S., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 115; Term
completed, 310
Getty, Ward D., Term completed, 310
Geva, Eitan, Assistant Professor of Chemistry,
77


361



