
MARCH MEETING,
1886.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,               1
ANN ARBOn, March 30th, 1886.
The Board of Regents met in the room of the President,
at 7 o'clock P. M.
Present: Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark,
Willett and Whitman.
Absent: Regent Field.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Executive Committee and Regent Clark were appointed a Committee to prepare
a recast of the Standing Committees of the Board of Regents,
and present the same to the Board for their approval.
The following is the report of the above Committee
which on motion of Regent Shearer, was adopted:
Executive Committee.
The President, Regents Blair, Grosvenor and Whitman.
Finance Committee.
Regents Grosvenor, Willett and Field.
Committee on Literary Department.
Regents Clark, Willett and Whitman.
Committee on Law Department.
Regents Joy, Blair and Willett.
Committee on Medical Department, Homceopathic College, and Dental School.
Regents Grosvenor, Shearer and Joy.




2


MARCH MEETING, 1886.


Library Committee.
Regents Willett, Blair, Field and the President.
Committee on Museum, School of Mines, and Astronomical Observatory.
Regents Blair, Clark and Field.
Committee on Chemical and Pharmaceutical Department.
Regents Joy, Clark and Whitman.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
Regents Shearer, Grosvenor and Joy.
The President presented and read the following report of
the action taken by the Executive Committee since the last
meeting of the Board.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,         l
March 30, 1886.
The Executive Committee respectfully beg leave to report
that, since the last meeting of the Board, they have th  v taken action as
follows:
On Dec. 8th, 1885, they met at the University.
On the recommendation of the Committee on the Law Department, they voted to accept the resignation of William P.
Wells, Kent Professor of Law, and to appoint Hon. Otto Kirchner,
of Detroit, as his successor for the remainder of the University
year, at the salary of $2,200 a year.
Members of the Law Faculty having expressed a desire to invite some eminent speaker to address the Law Alumni at Commencement, the Committee voted to appropriate.50 for paying
the travelling expenses of the speaker and for publishing his address.
The Committee appointed Daniel A. McLachlan, M. D., Professor of Theory and Practice of Medicine in the Homoeopathic
Medical College, for the remainder of the year at the salary of $1,600 a year, and David F. McGuire, M. D., was promoted from Associate Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology for
the remainder of the year at the salary of $400 a year. These two
appointments were made necessary by the continued illness of
Professor T. P. Wilson, whose resignation is in your hands.
The Committee voted to change the title of Clarence G. Taylor, B. S. from Assistant in Mechanical Engineering to that of
Superintendent of Shops in the Engineering Laboratory.
Oi Jan. 29th, 1886, on the recommendation of the Director of
the Chemical Laboratory, the Committee appointed Mr. Otto




MARCH MEETING, 1886.                    3
Scherer Assistant in that Laboratory for the second semester of
this year at a salary of $65 for that period. They also engaged
Arthur L. Green, Ph. C., the Assistant in Pharmacognosy at a
salary of $260 a year, to discharge additional duties in the Laboratory and in Pharmacognosy for the second semester, with an additional compensation of $100 for that time. These appropriations
do not increase the total expenditures beyond the usual sum.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,          Executive Committee.
E. 0. GROSVENOR, 
On motion of Regent Willett, the report of the Executive Committee was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication from Professor T. P.
Wilson of the Hom(eopathic College.
ANN ARBOR, Mic.c, 
Dec. 9,1885.   t
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-I beg respectfully to tender my resignation as
Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology.
T. P. WILSON.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the resignation of Professor T. P. Wilson was accepted.
Regent Joy presented and read the following communication from Professor William P. Wells, of the Law Department:
DETROIT,
Dec. 1st, 1885. 
HON. JAMES B ANGELL, LL. D., President of the University of Michigan:
MY DEAR SIR: —Having already verbally communicated to
you my purpose, for reasons connected with my private interests,
to sever my connection with the University, I now offer my resignation of the Kent Professorship in the Law Department, to take
effect on the 31st December inst.
I need not assure you or the Board of Regents that this step,
on my part, is taken with reluctance and regret. The years that I




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


have given to service in the Law School have been among the happiest of my life. To have had the opportunity of refreshing my
own legal studies, and exploring the sources and development of
the law by more systematic research than is possible in the exigencies of legal practice; to have been brought in contact with the
fresh and eager minds which have passed under my instruction; to
have enjoyed intimate and improving intercourse with my distinguished associates in the faculty; to have been benefited by my
nearness to the academic life of the University; all these have been
sources of great pleasure to me, and will continue among my dearest recollections.
I recall with gratification the unfailing courtesy towards me
of the President and all the members of the Board of Regents;
and I remember with peculiar sensibility, that during a long illness, a few years ago, so protracted under leave of absence as to
have justified the Board in intimating a wish for my resignation,
nothing was ever manifested to me except kindness and consideration.
The interest I felt in the University before my official connection with it, deepened during the years I have given to its service,
will not be diminished by the termination of my present connection with it. No occasion in the future will be neglected by me,
when I can serve it in any way. With just pride in the distinction
it confers on our Commonwealth, in its assured prosperity and its
high place among leading Universities and in the great work it is
doing for the cause of liberal culture in the land,
I am, very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
WM. P. WELLS.
On motion of Regent Joy, the resignation of Professor
Wim. P. Wells was accepted.
Regent Joy presented the following communication from
the Dean of the School of Pharmacy.
The Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
Thomas Wilson Miller, having completed all requirements for
the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist is hereby respectfully recommended for that degree.
By order of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
T. J. WRAMPELMEIER,
Dean, pro tern.
March 24, 1886.




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


On motion of Regent Joy, the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred upon Thomas Wilson Miller in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
School of Pharmacy.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication from the Dean of the
Dental Department.
ANN ARBOR,?
March 30th, 1886.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-Charles George Bush, having complied with
all the requirements of this Department, is hereby recommended
by the Faculty of the Dental College, for the Degree of " Doctor
of Dental Surgery."
Very Respectfully,
J. TAFT, Dean.
On motion the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was
conferred upon Charles George Bush, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Dental College.
On motion of Regent Shearer, the President was requested to convey the thanks of the Board to the Crosby
Steam Gauge Company, of Boston, for one Pop Safety Valve
in section, and one very handsome skeleton Steam Gauge.
Also to Messrs. Stevens and Scott, of Detroit, for one Injector,
and one Gate Valve in section.
Regent Blair presented and read the following communication from Sir Robert Hart, Inspector General of Chinese
Maritime Customs:
INSPECTORATE GENERAL OF CUSTOIS, 
PEKING, 1 October, 1885.
SIR:-Your telegram was received some months ago, expressing your desire to secure the Chinese Exhibit at the New Orleans
Cotton Exposition for the Michigan University, and the Chinese
Commission was in consequence instructed to present, and eventually did present, that Exhibit to you to be dealt with as proposed.
Seeing that so far there is no other record of the matter than the
telegrams which were received from you or sent to the Commission,
I-with whom it lay to dispose of the Exhibit-now address you




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


officially to say that from among the several claimants it gave me
great pleasure to select your University for the gift, mindful as I
was of the pleasant relations that you cultivated and maintained,
official and private, when at the American Legation here. The
destination of the Exhibit was duly reported to the Chinese Foreign Board on the 13th August last.
I am, Sir, Your Obedient Servant,
ROBERT HART,
Inspector General of Chinese Maritime Customs, President of the
Chinese Commission for the New Orleans World's Exposition of 1884-5.
To HON. JAMES B. ANGELL, LL. D.,
President of the University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, U. S. A.
On motion of Regent Blair the foregoing communication
was received, and ordered printed in the minutes.
Regent Joy, Chairman of the Law Committee, presented
a report from the Law Faculty, offered in compliance with
the request made by the Board in October last (p: 651) for a
report by the Faculty on the organization, methods of instruction and work in the Law Department.
On motion of Regent Joy the report was received and
laid on the table.
Regent Clark presented a communication from Ex-Regent
Van Riper in relation to the sale of lands in Ohio in which
the University has some interest, which on motion was referred to the Finance Committee.
Regent Clark presented the following request of Professor C. M. Gayley:
To the Hon. the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-In view of the fact that I desire to pursue my
studies in Germany, I would request you to grant me leave of
absence for one year, dated from Oct. 1st, 1886.
Respectfully Yours,
C. M. GAYLEY.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the request of Professor
Gayley was granted, his salary to lapse during his absence.




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


By permission, Professors Rogers and Hutchins addressed
the Board in regard to equalizing the salaries in the Law. Department.
On motion of Regent Joy the Board went into executive
session.
Regent Whitman moved that the salaries of the full
Professors in the Law Department be made equal after the
first day of October next. Carried.
Regent Willett moved that a committee of three be appointed to consider all questions relating to salaries, and
report at the next meeting of the Board. The motion prevailed, and Regents Willett, Grosvenor, and Blair were named
as such committee.
Dr. A. G. Oven having resigned as assistant to Dr.
Frothingham, on motion of Regent Grosvenor Mr. I. H.
Andrus was appointed to assist Dr. Frothingham for the remainder of the college year at the salary of the previous
incumbent.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor Doctor Frothingham
was granted permission to attend the meeting of the American Medical Association during the first week in May.
By permission, Professor H-. L. Obetz addressed the
Board on the condition and needs of the Homceopathic Medical College.
Regent Shearer presented the memorial of H. G. Prettyman and others, asking permission to connect a system of
house drainage with the University sewer, at a point on 12th
Street, near North University Avenue. The request was
fully discussed by the Board, and permission to make said
connection was withheld, for the reason that while in this
particular case no harm might result, yet if allowed, it would
establish a precedent that might become very troublesome.
Regent Shearer, Chairman of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, presented the following report;




8


MARCH MEETING, 1886.


March 30, 1886.
The Honorable the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN: As to the matter of the alterations and improvements in the Law Library Room, referred to the Committee
on Buildings and Grounds, your Committee would recommend as
follows: viz: That two large windows be formed in the northwest
and southwest corners of the Library Room, and that two half
windows be put into the east wall, all to be made to conform to
the external features of the building. Also that suitable book
cases, with seven or a suitable number of shelves in each, be formed
as far as practicable from the cases in present use, and that cases of
capacity for at least 13,000 volumes be so made. Your Committee
would also recommend that a new floor of hard maple be laid over
the present floor, and that this room be generally put in good order.
The whole to be done under the direction of the Board of Auditors
during the next vacation, and to be paid for from the Fund for
Repairs.
JAS. SHEARER,
E. O. GROSVENOR,            and Grounds.
E.. GROSENOR,       } Committee on Buildings
JAMES F. JOY,
On motion of Regent Clark the report of the Committee
on Buildings and Grounds was accepted and adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes —Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Willett, Clark
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The following report and recommendation was presented
by Regent Shearer, Chairman of Committee on Buildings
and Grounds.
March 30, 1886.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-Your Committee on Buildings and Grounds
who were authorized by resolution Aug. 25, 1885, to act for the
Board of Regents, in all matters connected with the erection of
the Building for the Engineering Laboratory, have to report that
the contract for the building was made with Messrs. J. L. Gearing
& Sons, of Detroit, as ordered by the Board, and that this firm has
completed said contract to the entire satisfaction of your Committee with the exception of a few small portions of the work, that
can not be done well before warm weather.




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


9


The cost of the Building to this date has been............................$ 10,626 95
There has been expended for Plant.....................................  1,681 85
12,308 80
Leaving of the appropriation unexpended................................  2,691 20
15,000 00
Your Committee       offer herewith     the Report of Professor
M. E. Cooley, the Superintendent of the Building, for your further
information, and would recommend that the remaining balance of
the appropriation be expended under the direction of Professor M.
E. Cooley and the Auditing Board.
JAMES SH.R    EARER,         ) Committee on Buildings
J. 0. GROSVENO,                       and Grounds.
JAMNIES F. JOY,
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,         f
ANN ARBOR, March 30, 1886.
HON. JAMES SHEARER, Chairman Committee on Buildings and Grounds;
SIR:-I have the honor to submit herewith a report of the expenditures to
date of the Legislative appropriation of $15,000.00 for the Engineering Laboratory.
Contract price  of  Building.................................$  9,387 00  $
Allowances on work not executed..............................  170 60  9,216 40


Extras allowed and paid as per written agreement.............


715 85
9,932 25


Total paid J. L. Gearing & Sons on contract....................
$9,932 25 Total paid when building is completed.
150 00 Retained until completion.
$9,782 25 Actually paid.
Paid J. L. Gearing & Sons, since settlement of March 2, for
work not contracted for when settlement was made..
Gordon W. Lloyd, Architect, for plans........................
Expenses incurred by M. E. Cooley in connection with plans;
trip East, Detroit and Bay City.....................
Advertising for proposals, Ann Arbor papers, $1.75; Detroit
papers,  $23.73.........................................
M. E. Cooley; 5 months salary as Superintendent, $50.00.......
Total cost of Building......................................
Paid up to date for plant and equipment......................
Total amt. of appropriation expended to date..............


47 00
285 00
87 22
25 48
250 00     694 70
10,626 95
1,681 85
12,308 80


Amt. of Appropriation....................................................$15,000 00
Amt. expended      to   date....................................................  12,308  80
Remaining unexpended...................................................         2,691 20
Of this $2,691.20, about $650.00 has already been contracted for, and about




10


MARCH MEETING. 1886.


$600.00 will be required for steam heating. The basement floor is yet to be put in
at a cost of about $300.00, and the old brick building must be changed somewhat at
a probable expense of $150.00; $200.00 will be required to pay for services of an
assistant to January 1, 1887.
Already contracted for.......................................$  650 00 $
Steam   heating..................................................  600  00
Basem ent  floor.................................................  300  00
Changing  old  Building......................................  150  00
A ssistant.......................................................  200  00  1,900  00
Remaining unexpended.......................................  2,691 20
Probable expense yet to  be incurred..........................  1,900 00
Balance.....................................................  791  20
A portion of this last balance must be expended for labor, setting machinery,
and belting.
Very respectfully submitted,
M. E. COOLEY,
Superintendent.
On motion of Regent Blair the report of the Committee
on Buildings and Grounds was accepted and adopted by the
full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Willett the Board adjourned to 8
o'clock tomorrow morning.
MORNING SESSION,
The Board reassembled in the room         of the President, at
8 o'clock A. M., pursuant to adjournment.
Present: The President, Regents Shearer, Grosyenor,
Blair, Clark, Willett, and Whitman.
Absent: Regents Joy and Field.
Regent Grosvenor moved that the sum of $500 be fixed
as the limit of the current expenses in the department of General Chemistry for the present college year; and that the same
amount be named as the annual appropriation of that Department, to stand until otherwise ordered by the Board.
The motion of Regent Grosvenor was carried by the following vote:




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


11


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett, and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
The President presented the following supplemental report of the Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee beg leave further to report that as
Professor Harrington was unable, by reason of illness, to consider
the proposition to continue through the second semester the instruction in Physics, the Committee in February appointed Dewitt
B. Brace, Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Physics for the second
semester, at a salary of $800 for that period.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR.          Executive Committee.
E. O. GROSVENOR, 
On motion of Regent Shearer the report of the Executive Committee was accepted and adopted by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett, and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair presented the following report and recommendations of the "University Senate."
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGGAN, 
March 30, 1886.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The University Senate, in response to the request of your
Board (June Meeting, 1885; Proceedings, p. 553), have given further
consideration to the subject of the proposed celebration of the approaching semi-centennial anniversary of the organization of the
University, and have agreed to recommend to your Board the following plan and order of exercises:
I. That the proposed celebration be appointed for Wednesday
and Thursday of Commencement Week, June, 1887.
II. That the exercises of the occasion be as follows:
Wednesday Morning. —Two public addresses-one by a representative of the Board of Regents; the other, on the growth of the
educational system of the State, by a representative of the State
Teachers' Association.
Wednesday Afternoon.-Exercises of the Society of the
Alumni.




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


Wednesday Evening.-Reception by the University Senate.
Thursday Morning.-The principal address of the occasion,
in place of the usual Commencement oration, to be followed by
congratulatory addresses from representatives of Harvard University, Yale College, and the University of Virginia, or other universities to be designated by the committee on invitations.
Thursday Afternoon.-Further congratulatory addresses by
representatives of other institutions of learning-to be received
at the Commencement banquet.
Thursday Evening.-A musical festival in University Hall.
III. That the Board of Regents designate a representative to
give the first address on Wednesday morning.
IV. That the State Teachers' Association be invited, at their
annual meeting in December next, to appoint some person to give
the second address.
V. That the Society of the Alumnibe invited, at their annual
meeting in June next, to make such arrangements as they may
deem proper for the commemoration of the occasion on Wednesday afternoon.
VI. That the members of the various Faculties, with their
wives, be invited to assist the President and Mrs. Angell in receiving the guests on Wednesday evening.
VII. That the President of the University be invited to give
the principal address of the occasion on Thursday morning.
VIII. That the following committees be appointed:
(1) A Committee on Invitations, of which the President of
the University shall be Chairman.
(2) A Committee on Arrangements, to be selected from the
various Faculties.
(3) A Committee on Entertainment and Hospitality, to consist of citizens of Ann Arbor, and members, of the various Faculties.
IX. That a Commemoration Volume be published by the
University, containing the programme of exercises and the addresses pertaining to the occasion.
Respectfully submitted,
W. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the Senate.
Regent Blair presented the following resolution, which
was adopted:




MARCH MEETING. 1886.


13


Resolved, That the Board of Regents agree with the recommendation of the University Senate that the approaching semicentennial of the organization of the University should be appropriately celebrated, and hereby approve the plan set forth in their
report of March 30, 1886.
Resolved firther, That the carrying of the plan into effect be
committed to the Senate, and that such appropriations will be hereafter made as may be necessary for this purpose.
On motion of Regent Blair the Executive Committee
was charged with the duty of selecting some person to represent the Board of Regents at the coming semi-centennial celebration.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Section 2, Chapter 5, of
the By-Laws was changed to read as follows:
"The two regular meetings of the Board shall be held, one at
some time in the first half of October, and the other at some time
in the last half of March of each year."
Regent Blair presented the following communication
from Acting Professor V. M. Spalding:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-Mr. Joseph B. Whittier, of East Saginaw, an
Alumnus of the University, has recently presented the botanical
department with one hundred dollars for the purchase of Ellis'
North American Fungi. This collection, numbering now seventeen hundred species, has been procured and will be of very great
value to special students of Botany.
Very Respectfully,
V. M. SPALDING,
Acting Professor of Botany.
On motion of Regent Blair, the President was requested
to convey to Mr. Joseph B. Whittier the cordial thanks of the
Board for his generous gift in aid of the special students in
Botany.
Regent Shearer, Chairman of the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds submitted the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved, That the Board of Auditors be and hereby are
directed to move the framed building, now used as a part of the




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


Engineering Laboratory, to its former position, and use said building as a Carpenter Shop; such portion of the machinery as is required for the use of the Engineering Department to be taken out
and retained.
Regent Blair presented the request of Acting Professor
B. W. Cheever for an appropriation of $200, to purchase additional apparatus in the Chemical Laboratory, which was referred to the Committee on the School of Mines.
Regent Clark presented the request of Acting Professor
V. M. Spalding for an appropriation of $100, for the purchase
of one immersion lense for use in the Botanical Laboratory.
Referred to the Finance Committee.
Regent Grosvenor presented the following communication from George E. Steele, Esq., of Traverse City.
TRAVERSE CITY,
January 26, 1886. i
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
HON. GENTLEMEN:-I take pleasure in presenting to the University for the use of the Engineering Department, my Standard
Steel Rod, 72 inches long, at a temperature of 61.6 o F.-rate of expansion of 0.00043 inches for one degree. This standard measure
was obtained from the U. S. Coast Survey Office.
I do this with the only provision that it shall be supplemented
by you with a suitable apparatus of wood 100 feet in length for
use in testing any chains, tapes, or measures, and especially of any
belonging to members of the Michigan Engineering Society.
GEO. E. STEELE.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the gift of Mr. Steele
was accepted, and the President was requested to convey the
thanks of the Board to him for the same.
Professor J. B. Davis presented the following plan for
carrying out the conditions in the communication of George
E. Steele, Esq.  This plan was adopted by the Board, and
the Auditing Board were instructed to carry out the same.
JAS. B ANGELL, LL. D., President of the University of Michigan:
SIR: —In response to your request relating to the erection of a
wooden standard measure upon the College grounds, in conformity
to the conditions of the gift of Hon. George E. Steele, of Traverse




MARCH MEETING, 1886.


15


City, Mich., to the University of a six feet steel U. S. Coast Survey
Standard Rod, I beg leave to report as follows:
1. This wooden standard should be about 101 feet long.
2. It may be made of 2x4 pine scantling spliced and bolted
together with carriage bolts.
3. Bolts may be fixed in it at the proper places for the various
needed lengths on it to be indicated by marks on said bolt heads.
4. This pine rod may be carried on some 11 to 13 cast brack
ets with a small adjustment both horizontally and vertically for
setting and keeping said rod straight and level.
5. Said cast brackets may be carried by suitable castings secured to a solid brick wall in some of the buildings.
6. Another bracket of suitable form should be fixed beyond
one end of the wooden rod to attach the end of any measure to,
for comparison with the standard wooden rod.
7. I consider the brick wall on the west side of the hallway,
upon the third floor of the main building, as the best place for this
rod.
8. I think $50. a sufficient sum for erecting this rod. Even
this sum need not be expended if the employees of the College can
do a part of the work, such as making patterns for castings, making and mounting the rod and setting the brackets.
9. If informed of the action of the Regents favorably to the
erection of this rod, I can publish it in the proceedings of the Michigan Engineering Society so that the members of the society can
avail themselves of the provisions of Mr. Steele's gift.
10. I contemplate no charges for making comparisons.
Respectfully,
J. B. DAVIS.
By permission, Doctor Palmer, Dean of the Medical
Faculty, addressed the Board on the condition and needs of
the Medical Department.
A communication was received from the officers of the
American Medical Missionary Society, an organization formed to aid medical students intending to enter upon the duties
of medical missionaries in foreign fields. The object of the
communication was to ascertain whether the Board of Regents
could remit the fees of such students.
On the recommendation of the Medical Committee it was
voted that the Board has no power to remit the fees.




16              MARCH MEETING, 1886.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Auditing Board
were authorized to assign, discharge or otherwise to dispose
of for the best interests of the University, a certain mortgage
on lands in the State of Ohio, known as the Porter mortgage, in which the University has a small interest.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Auditing Board
were authorized to employ a messenger boy in the General
Offices, at a salary not exceeding two hundred and fifty ($250.)
dollars.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING,
1886.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,         1
June 29, 1886.
The Board of Regents assembled in regular session in
the room of the President, at 9 o'clock, A. M.
Present: The President, Regents Grosvenor, Joy, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Absent: Regents Shearer and Blair.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
The President stated that he had received several communications which he desired to present to the Board, and
suggested that the papers be received and referred to the
Appropriate Committees. Agreed to.
The following communication from the Ann Arbor
Water Company was presented and read by Regent Grosvenor, and on his motion was received and ordered to be printed
in the minutes:
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, 
May 21st, 1886. 5
The Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN,-Please to take notice that the Ann Arbor
Water Company hereby withdraws its proposal to furnish water
from its mains to the University of Michigan at an annual rental
of Five Hundred Dollars per year.
Very truly,
THE ANN ARBOR WATER COMPANY.
Per H.
2




18


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


On motion of Regent Joy, the sum of seventy-five dollars
was appropriated for advertising the Law Department for the
year 1886-7 by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field, and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
By permission, Professor Calvin Thomas addressed the
Board. He stated that our General Library was sadly deficient in German Literature, and that for a long time he had
been greatly embarrassed for want of the works of the best
German Authors. To meet this want he had made an appeal
to the German citizens of the State to contribute to a fund to
be designated the Goethe Library Fund: the response to this
appeal had been very gratifying, and that the donations had
already reached the sum of more than $1,300. He asked the
Board to accept the trusteeship of this fund.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the acceptance of the
trusteeship of the above fund by the Board, was referred to
the Library and Law Committees jointly.
Regent Joy presented the following communication from
the Dean of the Faculty of the Department of Law:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
The Faculty of Law respectfully report that the following
named persons have completed the course of instruction in the
Law Department, and they recommend that the degree of Bachelor
of Laws be conferred upon them:
Respectfully submitted for the Faculty,
CHARLES A. KENT, Dean.
Ralph Leonard Aldrich,      Frank Lord Boyd,
Michael Edward Ames,        George Andrew Callinan Brady,
Stanley Corwin Andrews,     John Irwin Breck, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Asahel George Avery,        Noah Harrison Browning,
Lincoln Avery, B. S.,       William Henry Brunson,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Patrick Joseph Bannon,      Lettie Lavilla Burlingame,
Archibald Mechling Blakeley, AttCharles Henry Carlson,




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


19


Louis Grant Carpenter,
John Wharton Clark, A. B.,
Iowa College.
William Millian Clary,
James Albert Crawford,
George Boyer Creveling,
James Edmund Cross,
Alfred Owen Crozier,
George Zophar Dimmitt, A. B.,
Centre College.
Alpheus Edwin Doe,
Charles Dresbach, Att'y,
Benjamin Woodbury Driggs, Jr.
Charles Henry Dudley, B. C. E.,
Cornell College.
Frank Edward Durning,
John Myron Edgerton,
Robert Emory Evans,
Alfred Wallingford Farrar,
John Adam Gallup, A. B.,
Olivet College.
Leonard Bertin Gardner,
Edwin Clendenin Garrigues,
Henry Clarke Gilbert,
Joseph Buckner Gill,
John Wesley Gillespie,


Jacob Warren Houder,
Edward Everett Hull,
Charles Mark Humphrey,
Isaac N. Huntsberger, A.M., Att.,
University of Wooster.
Yasnoskeh Ishii,
James Glacstone Jolly, B. C. L.,
McGill University.
Winthrop Reed Kendall,
Charles Henry Kline,
Milton Kraus,
Jason Gordon Lamison,,James Marshall Lawson, A. B.,
College of New Jersey.
Roger Miller Lee,
Frank Nathaniel Lufkin, A. B.,
George Alexander Lukehart,
Harry Silvis Lydick,
William Lewis Marquardt,
James Charles Martin, A. B.,
Norman Thickstun Mason, A.B.,
Cornell College.
William Luther Mason,
Calvin Dexter May, Ph. B.,
William Arthur Frank May,
William A. McDonald, Att'y,


Delbert James Haff, A.B., Att'y, John Webster McKenzie,
William Henri Haggerty, Ph. M.,Alonzo B. McMillan,
Hillsdale College.
Charles Brook Iamble,         James McNamara,
James William Hamilton,       Tom Henry McNeil, A. B
Elias N. Hartman,              V alter Scott Meeker,
Thomas Davis Healy, B. S.,    Mary Merrill,
Ambrose Edgel Helmick,        Henry David Merithew,
George Everard Hibner, Att'y,  Charles Frederic Miller,
Francis Grant Higgins,        Edward Charles Miller,
Edward Everett Hogg,          Volney Miller,
Frank Hooper,                 John T. Moffit, A. B.,


I


Frank M. Hostetter,


Cornell College.
George Ladd Munn, A. B.,
University of Rochester.




20


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


Henry William Nieman,
Robert Allen Nye,
Rollo Blakesley Oglesbee, Att'y,
John Michael Opsahl,
William Claiborne Overton,
Charles Edward Peele,
Ruport Tarpley Pickens, A. B.,
Yadkin College.
George Gregg Prewitt,
Henry Saint Rayner, Att'y,
Charles Matloche Rice,
Granville Addison Richardson,
John Charles Richter, Jr.,
James Scouton,
Kelly Stephen Searl,
Charles Edward Servis,
John Clarence Shaw,
Fred Bemister Shepherd,


Allen Shewmon,
Benjamin Franklin Shively, Att.,
Brown Sylvester Smith,
Ezra Smith,
James Gabriel Smith, A. B.,
University of Kansas.
William James Spears, Att'y,
Marline Bingham Stephens,
Joseph Henderson Stewart,
John Emmett Sullivan, A. B.,
Detroit College.
William Harvey Talcott, Att'y,
Oris Columbus Tarpenning,
Zeb Vance Walser, A. B.,
Yadkin College.
William Worth Wendell,
Thomas Burchard White,
Augustus W. Wolfe,
Arthur Creighton Wright,
Francis WVright.


On motion of Regent Joy, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing
communication, in accordance with the recommendations of
the Faculty of the Law Department.
The request of the Law Librarian for an increase of
salary was presented by Regent Joy, and was on motion referred to the Special Committee on Salaries.
Regent Joy, Chairman of the Committee on Pharmaceutical Department, presented and read the following communication:
ANN ARnoR, June 28, 1886.
The Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN,-The following named persons, having completed all requirements for the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist,
are respectfully recommended to your honorable body for that
degree:
George Sherman Alcorn,     Andrew John Buckham,
John Lansing Banister,     Edward W. Clark, Ph. G.,
Gordon Acers Bowdish,      John Robert Conrads,




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


21


George Beal Daniels,        Gerhard Meinert,
Jeptha Wade Doty,          Edsel Alexander Ruddiman,
Wirt Payson Doty,           Elmer Gardner Runyan,
Harvey Kimble Eaton,        Otto Scherer,
George Henry Felt, Jr.,     Edgar Dennis Smith,
Charles Thomas Haigh,       Edwin Rawson Stivers,
Paul Henry Hirth,           Mason Sacia Thomson,
Fred Fenner Vedder.
By order of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
T. J. WRAMPELMEIER, Dean pro tern.
On motion of Regent.Joy the degree of Pharmaceutical
Chemist was conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy.
Professor Charles E. Greene asked for an appropriation
of $200 to purchase drawings for the Engineering Department.
The request of Prof. Greene was referred to the Committee
on the Literary Department.
The proposition of Mr. Thomas C. Trueblood to teach
elocution and oratory in this University, one semester in each
year, for a salary of $1,100, was referred to the Special Committee on Salaries at the last session of the Board.
Regent Willett, Chairman of Special Committee, reported
that they had had the same under consideration and recommended that the proposition of Mr. Trueblood be not accepted.
The Board by vote concurred in the report and recommendation of the Committee.
Regent Grosvenor Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication from the Dean of the
Homceopathic Faculty:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
HOMOEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Ann Arbor, Mich., June 30, 1886.
To the Honorable Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN,-The Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical
College respectfully report the following named persons as having
complied with the requirements of the University, and beg to re



22


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


commend them to your Honorable Board for the degree of Doctor
of Medicine.
In behalf of the Faculty,
H. L. OBETZ, M. D., Dean.
Lawrence Baldwin.          Roscoe Dudley Mack.
George Gabriel Caron.      John Wesley McLachlan.
Annie Elizabeth Clark.     Isaiah Snyder Morris.
Laura Amada Edwards.       Edward Herman Pond, A. B.
Joseph Johnson Fowler.     Hugh B. Reynolds.
George Wirt Hathaway.      Nana Braden Riddell.
Mary Tufts Hathaway.       Robert Coleman Rudy.
George Benson Kelso.       Elizabeth Uncapher.
Harold Beckwith Wilson, B. S.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the degree of Doctor
of Medicine was conferred upon the persons named in the
foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical College.
A vacancy having occurred in the Law Faculty by reason
of the expiration of the time for which Professor Kirchner
was appointed, Regent Joy moved that the appointment of
Professor Otto Kirchner be made permanent. Regent Willett moved that the matter be referred to the Law Committee,
which was so ordered.
On motion of Regent Joy the Board took a recess until
1:30 o'clock P. Ai.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled in the room of the President at
1:30 o'clock P. M., and on motion of Regent Joy went into executive session. After remaining in executive session for
some time, the business of the open session was resumed.
Regent Whitman moved that Professor H. S. Carhart be
appointed Professor of Physics at a salary of $2,200. The
vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes —Regents Grosvenor, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field and
Whitman.
Nays-None.




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


23


At the last meeting of the Board the Executive Committee was charged with the duty of selecting one member of the
Board of Regents to deliver an address at the coming celebration of the semi-centennial anniversary of the organization of
the University. Regent Grosvenor from the Executive Committee, reported that his Committee had made choice of
Regent Blair to deliver said address.
On motion of Regent Clark, Regent Whitman was invited to deliver an address of welcome to the Peninsular
Saenger-Bund which meets in University Hall in August
next.
On motion of Regent Blair the Board adjourned to 7
o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7 o'clock P. M.
Regent Grosvenor Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented and read the following communication from the
Dean of the Medical Faculty:
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY,
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
Ann Arbor, June 28, 1886.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
The following named persons having complied with all the requirements made for graduation in the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, are hereby recommended for the Degree of Doctor of
Medicine.
A. B. PALMER, Dean.
CANDIDATES FOR A DEGREE.
Frank Seth Armitage,       Esther Clara H. Brooks, A. B.,
Smith College.
Achbor Jehu Baker, A. M.,  Belno Addison Brown. B. D.,
Iowa College.              Nashotah Theological College.
Florence Adell Belknap,    Heman Hampton Brown,
John Albert Bobb,          Rose Standish Bryan,
Fred Nathaniel Bonine,     Lawrence Byron,
Teunis Ardenne Boot,       Rosalie Armstrong Chadbourne,
Edward Lincoln Bower,      Edmund Conley,




24


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


Mary Catherine Cook,
Mary Helen Cullings,
3Byron Francis Dawson, Ph. C.,
Charles Richard Dewey,
Wealthly Desire Dibble,
Harley Mitchell Dunlap,
Jacob Asher Fink,
Charles George Forbes,
John Calvin Frets,
Miriam Gardner,
Walter Harding)
lImer Ellsworth Hendershott,
Emily Alice Hill,
Sarah C. Hills,
Wilmer Brown Hoge, Ph. C.
William Henry Hood, B. S.
Adrian College.
Frank Howe Hovey,
Edwin J. Howe,
Enos John Hughes,
Jesse Butler Hull,
Samuel Adams Jackson,
Thomas Smith Kingston,
Martha Elizabeth Lough,
Oliver Almond LaCrone,
Frederick Lohrstorfer,
Horace Mandel Lowe,
Harry Arthur March,
Frank Wilson Martin,
Mary Simpson McCarty,
Daniel McEacheran,
Edward L. Mooney,
William Phipps Munn,
Frank Neely,
Louis Delevan Niles, B. S.,
Michigan Agricultural College.


Charles Eugene Norris,
John Edward Ottaway,
Johannes Abraham Otte, A. B.,
Hope College.
Edward B. Patterson, A. M.,
Oberlin College.
Charles Birdsall Pearson,
William Crosby Riddel,
William H. Riley~
Dana Chapman Rood,
Frank Lisle Rose,
Hannah Cullombine Rous,
John Henry Seiler,
Warren Bradford Sexton,
Frank Edward Victor Shore,
William Forsyth Shorts,
Nobyoshi H. Shirafji,
Harry Austin Sifton,
Lois Hepsy Stoddard,
Thomas A. Stoddard,
Mary Elizabeth Strain,
John Hubert Swanson,
Fred Adelbert Swartwood,
George Robert Taylor,
James Bricker Tedrow, Ph. B.,
Mt. Union College.
Mary Glover Thompson,
Mary Rosetta Thompson,
Fred Arthur Todd,
Cora Alfretta Turner,
Albert Mason Tyler,
James Townley Upjohn,
Glenn Bee Venable,
Joseph Adam Weitz, A. M.,
Jacob Wile, Jr.,
Flora Belle Williams,
Harry Almon Wood,


Scott Percy Woodin.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon the persons named in the re



JUNE MEETING, 1886.


25


commendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery.
Regent Clark submitted the following communication
from the Secretary of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts:
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND THE ARTS. 
Ann Arbor, June 28th, 1886. %
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN,-I have the honor to report to your Honorable
Body that the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, being satisfied that the reason for the absence from
Commencement, of
John Nelson James, candidate for Bachelor of Arts,
Thomas Bertrand Bronson, candidate for Master of Arts,
Lewis Addison Rhoades, candidate for Master of Arts,
are satisfactory, respectfully recommended that the degree to
which they are entitled be conferred upon them in their absence.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Secretary.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN,-By direction of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, I have the honor to report that the following persons are recommended to you for the
degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
Albert Levi Arner,          Flisha Monroe Hartman,
Ada Electa Ferguson,        Alexander Frazer McEwan,
Edward Leroy Parmenter, Jr.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (COURSE IN BIOLOGY).
Charles Wright Dodge,       Erwin F. Smith.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (COURSE IN CHEMISTRY).
Edward DeMill Campbell,      Louis Munroe Dennis, Ph. B.,
Frederick George Novy.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (COURSE IN MINING ENGINEERING).
Lewis Ezra Denham,           Burt McDonald.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (COURSE IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).
Clifford Chester Smith.




26


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (COURSE IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).
Raymond Walter Beach,       Louis Clarence Hill,
William Wallace Campbell,   William Clarence King,
Fred Goodrich Frink,        Fred Morley,
Leslie Warren Goddard,      George Rosen Simpson,
Howard George Hetzler,      Ernest Stenger.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN GENERAL SCIENCE).
Charles Erwin Bruce,        Luella Belle Foss,
Mary Climie,                Albert Cotton Grier,
Nathan Davis Corbin,        Wilber Fisk Jackman,
Frederick Wiley Stevens.
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Franklin Augustus Ainsworth, Ross LeHunte Mahon,
Nellie Elizabeth Bancroft,  Josiah McRoberts,
Harriet Alice Chipman,      William Morgan Odell,
Claus Siem Claussen,        Kate Orr,
Fannie G. Kahn,             Helen Lucy Osgood,
Caroline E. Lorman,         Edwin Frank Saunders,
Frank Louis Weaver
BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Charles Lincoln Andrews,
Martin Darrell Atkins,
Monroe D. Baker,
Walter Bond Bliss,
Herbert Eugene Boynton,
Edson Pratt Bradley,
Edward Caldwell,
William Whiting Chapin,
Frank Alfred Clary,
Minnie Louise Converse,
Ira George Curry,
Nettie Chloe Daniels,
Nat Earl Degren,
Elwood Frank Demmon,
Robert Neil Dickman,
George Philip Fleisher,
Joseph Ganahl, Jr.,
William Marshall Giller,
Elizabeth Portia Goodson,
Myron Oscar Graves,


Wilbur James Gregory,
Clara Viets Grover,
James Grant Hays,
Jonathan Heaton,
Frederick Charles Hicks,
Fred Bruce Hollenbeck,
George Francis James,
John Nelson James,
Andrew Stewart Lobingier,
Elmer Adelbert Lyman,
William Andrew McAndrew,
William McCracken,
Ollice Parks,
Edwin Deppen Peifer,
Herman Joseph Powell,
George Lamphere Price,
Hewey Abbott Reynolds,
Sarah Elizabeth Satterthwaite,
Clyde William Smith,
Hiram Allen Sober,




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


27


Grant Byron Swisher,        Belmont Waples,
Orla Benedict Tayler,       Frank Day Wells,
Henry Silas Tibbit,         Chauncey Alvah Wheeler,
Samuel Brown Todd,          Fred Bishop Wixson,
Eliza Putnam Underwood,     Frederick Thompson Wright.
IMASTER OF ARTS.
Thomas Bertrand Bronson,   Mary Emilie Holmes,
Webster Cook,               Lewis Addison Rhoades.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Edward Playfair Anderson,   Douglas Houghton Campbell,
J. Rose Colby.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Secretary.
Regent Clark presented the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the degrees indicated in the foregoing communication be and are hereby conferred upon the persons named
therein in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of
the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
The President presented the following communication
from the Board of Health:
OFFICE OF THE BOARD OF HEALTH, CITY OF ANN ARBOR, 
Ann Arbor, June 29th, 1886..
Dr. J. B. Angell, President University of Mich.:
Complaints having been made to us of the existence of a
nuisance in the form of an offensive odor arising at the outlet of
the University sewer, and having inspected and declared the same
to be a nuisance and detrimental to public health, you are therefore requested to present the action of the Board of Health to the
proper authorities for immediate action to abate the same.
By order of the Board of Health.
JOHN KNAPP, Health Officer.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Auditing Board
were instructed to abate the nuisance at the outlet of the
University sewer.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Walter Miller, A. M.,
was appointed instructor in Greek for the ensuing year at a
salary of $900, by the following vote:




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Joy, Professor H. S. Frieze was
appointed Acting Presidcent during the absence of President
Angell.
Regent Joy submitted the following report:
On the recommendation of the Law Committee it was voted
that the Board of Regents will agree to become trustees of all the
moneys which have been raised for the German American Goethe
Fund so called, by Professor Thomas, or by other means, or which
may be raised, that all such money be paid to the Treasurer of this
Board to be credited by him to this special fund and to be managed
and invested under the care of the Finance Committee of the
Board.
That it shall be expended to the amount of the first one
thousand dollars under the direction of the President, the Librarian, and the Professor of German Language and Literature.
That all money above the said one thousand dollars which is
in or may come into this fund, shall be invested under the direction
of the said Finance Committee, and only the interest thereon may
be expended by or under the direction of the parties above named.
The above report was concurred in by the full Board.
The President presented and read the following commucation from Professor H. S. Frieze:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN,-I have the pleasure of presenting to the University in behalf of Mr. Chas. H. Denison, of the class of 1861, a
crayon portrait of the late Henry Philip Tappan, first President of
the University. This portrait, which is of the life size, and of
quarter length, was made by Mr. Otto Venius, of New York. It
was studied from several photographs of Dr. Tappan, taken in his
best days, when residing at the University, and Mr. Denison constantly watched the work in its process, making suggestions from
his own memory; so that all of us who knew the first President
are agreed in pronouncing the likeness absolutely perfect. The
artistic excellence of the execution of the portrait, also adds greatly
to the value of Mr. Denison's gift; and he especially deserves our
thanks for pointing out the way in which good service can done to,




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


29


the University by its alumni in placing within its halls the forms
and features of the distinguished dead whose names are conspicuous in its history.  Very respectfully,
HENRY S. FRIEZE.
On motion of Regent Field, the portrait of Dr. Tappan
was received and the cordial thanks of the Board were tendered to Mr. Charles H. Denison for his valued gift.
By permission Dr. A. B. Palmer addressed the Board on
the condition and needs of the Medical Department.
On motion of Regent Joy the Board adjourned to tomorrow morning at 10:30 o'clock.
MORNING        SESSION,
Wednesday, June 30, 1886.
The Board of Regents reassembled in the room of the
President at 10:30 A. M. Full Board present except Regent
Shearer.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Committee on the
Dental School, submitted the following communication from
the Dean of the Faculty of the Dental Department:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, DENTAL COLLEGE.
Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN,-The following named persons, members of the
Senior Class of this Department, for the term just closed, having
completed the prescribed course of study and work, and conformed
to the requirements in a satisfactory manner, are by the Faculty
of the College, presented and recommended to your Honorable
Board, for the Degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery:
CLASS OF 1886.
Henry Leo Banzhaf,          George James Dennis,
Edmund Keyes Clements,      Frank Fringer Douds,
William Albert Courtney,    Calvin Ezra Fitzgerald,
Herbert Cox,                Felipe Gallegos,
Harry Williamson Davis,     Charles Perry Hanson,
Henry Addison Dawley,       Anastasia Helen Hefter,




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


William A. Hoover,          Matilda N ehls,
Ralph Hoyt,                  Charles Sillman Page,
Merritt Custar Hutchins,    Albert Rysdorp,
Michael Willis Lau,         Clifford Francis Snyder,
Edward Emery Lobb,          Frederick Mott Thompson,
Caroline Ada Magness,       Marie A. Thompson.
Thomas John Mason,          Walton Kellogg Walwrath,
Arthur Henry McCann,        George Henry Watson,
Benjamin Franklin Yates,
Respectfully yours,
J. TAFT, Dean.
On motion the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery was
conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendations therein
contained.
Regent Grosvenor moved that the title of T. J. Wrampelmeier be Assistant Professor, and that his salary be 81,360.
The motion of Regent Grosvenor was carried by the following vote:
Ayes —Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-Regent Willett.
Regent Grosvenor presented the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
CHEMICAL LABORATORY,
Ann Arbor, June 30, 1886.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-I beg leave to recommend appointments in
the teaching force of the Chemical Laboratory as follows: That
the following re-appointments be made, for the year 1886-87, each
at the same salary granted in 1885-86:
Mrs. Kate C. Johnson, Dispensing Clerk in the Chemical Laboratory;
Eugene V. Riker, Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, and
Charles L. Davis, Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry;
Also, that Mr. George W. VWhyte be appointed Assistant in
Quantitative Analysis, in place of Edward D. Campbell, whose
term of service has expired, and at the same salary. And that Mr.
Charles P. Beckwith be appointed as Assistant in the Chemical




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


31


Laboratory in place of Mr. L. M. Dennis, whose term of service
expires, and at the salary of the previous incumbent.
Further I beg leave to recommend that Edsel A. Ruddiman,
Ph. C., be appointed as Assistant in Pharmacognosy, at the salary
of one hundred and fifty dollars, and for the year 1886-7, in place
of A. L. Green, whose term of service expires, and whose rate of
salary as fixed one year ago (irrespective of the absence of the
undersigned) was $260.00 per annum.
By these recommendations, the expenditure for Assistants has
been reduced (1) $110.00 in the successor of Mr. Green, and $250.00
in the successors of Mr. VanSlyke, $360.00, therefore, remain. And
I respectfully ask you to add this to the salary of Mr. T. J. Wrampelmeier.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Director of the Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor all the appointments
recommended in the above communication were made by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The annual reports of the Medical Faculty, and the House
Surgeon in University Hospital, were received and placed on
file.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution
which was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That this Board desires to express to William P.
Wells, whose resignation as Professor in the Law Department has
been accepted, its appreciation of the long and valuable services so
faithfully rendered by him to the University.
The Medical Faculty submitted the following recommendations:
Osbourne F. Chadbourne, M. D., to be Assistant to the
chair of Pathology and the Practice of Medicine at a salary
of $100.
Thomas J. Sullivan Assistant to the chair of Surgery,
salary $100.




32


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


James N. Martin Assistant to the chair of Obstetrics and
Diseases of Women and Children, salary $100.
James H. Andrus Assistant to the chair of Materia Medica and Ophthalmology, salary $100.
William A. Campbell to be Secretary of the Faculty,
salary $100.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the above appointments
were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark moved that $200 be appropriated to purchase drawings for use in the Engineering Department. A
call vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Joy the sum of $500 was appropriated from the contingent fund for the purchase of additional
equipment in the Engineering Laboratory by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Eield
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reconvened at 2 o'clock p. M.
Regent Grosvenor presented the request of the Homceopathic Medical Faculty, asking that the Board provide for
instruction in Medical Jurisprudence in their Department.
This request was referred to the Law Committee.
Regent Grosvenor presented the request of the Faculty
of the Homoeopathic Medical College to be allowed to revise




JUNE MEETING, 1886.


33


the form of the Diploma of their Department. This request
was referred to the Executive Committee.
Acting Professor of Botany, V. NM. Spalding, asked for
an appropriation of $300 to purchase additional apparatnus for
his Department. On motion of Regent Grosveinor the sum of
$145 or so much thereof as may be necessary to purchase one
immersion lens and one dry lens for use in the Botanical
Laboratory. The vote on this motion was:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The Homoeopathic Faculty submitted a plan which embraced some changes in the course of instruction in that Department, which on motion of Regent Grosvenor was referred
to the Executive Committee with power to act.
The Law Committee to whom was referred the question
of the permanent appointment of Professor Otto Kirchner as
Kent Professor of Law, reported that they had been unable
to reach any conclusion in Committee, and referred the matter back for the consideration of the full Board.  Mr. Kirchner and Mr. C. I. Walker were placed in nomination for the
Kent Professorship for one year. A call vote was taken
which resulted as follows: For Professor Kirchner-Regents
Grosvenor and Joy. For C. I. Walker-Regents Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman and Blair; and Mr. Walker was declared
elected for the coming year.
On motion of Regent Joy the appointment of Assistant
Professor of Law J. C. Knowlton was continued for one year
at a salary of $1,200, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, ('lark, Willett, Field,
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the salaries of full Professors in the Law and
Dental Departments, be fixed at $2,000 from October first, 1886.




34


JUNE MEETING, 1886.


The resolution of Regent Clark was adopted by the
unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Field, Jacob E. Reighard, Ph. B.,
was appointed Assistant in Zoology for one year at a salary
of 8900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-Regent Willett.
Regent Clark moved that Professor John Dewey be made
Assistant Professor of Philosophy at a salary of $1,600. The
vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field,
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Joy, the honorary degree of Master
of Arts was conferred on MASAKAZU TOYAMA, a former student of this University, and now Dean of the College of
Literature in the University of Tokio, Japan.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the honorary degree of
Doctor of Philosophy was conferred on ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
M. D., Director of the Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws was conferred on SIR ROBERT HART, Inspector General of Maritime Customs of the Empire of China.
On motion of Regent Willett, the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws was conferred on HON. CUSHMAN KELLOGG
DAVIS, of St. Paul, Minn., a graduate of the Class of 1857.
On motion of Regent Joy, the Board took a recess to tomorrow afternoon at 12:30 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION,
TITURSDAY, July 1st, 1886.
At 12:30 o'clock the Board convened, and on motion of
Regent Grosvenor, adopted a vote of thanks to the Hon.




JUNE MEETING, 1886.                 35
Cushman K. Davis, of St. Paul, Minn., for his scholarly and
eloquent commencement address, and requested a copy for
publication.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
1886.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
July 19, 1886. 
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the President at 7 o'clock P)..
Present: Acting President Frieze, Regents Grosvenor
Blair, Clark and Whitman.
Absent: Regents Shearer, Joy and Willett.
The meeting was called to order and opened by Acting
President Frieze.
Regent Grosvenor presented and read the following report of'the Executive Committee:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,,
July 6, 1886. t
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee respectfully beg leave to report that
on July 1st they transacted the following business, as a quorum of
the Board was not present, and the necessity for action on these
matters seemed pressing.
The sum of $300, to be paid from the dental fund, was appropriated for the purchase of dental journals and books, recommended
by the dean of the Dental Faculty as necessary.
EDIWARD B. PATTERSON, nM. D., was appointed ward master in
the University hospital for one year at a salary of $300.
CHARLES STEWART was appointed nurse at the usual salary.
MRS. IDA R BBRIGHAMi was appointed ward mistress for one
year in the University Hospital at a salary of $300; it being understood that two nurses were to be appointed by the Auditing Board
at such rates that the total sum expended in the woman's ward
should not exceed the expenditure of last year.
The above appointments were made on the recommendation
of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.




38


SPECIAL MEETING, 1886.


On the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic
Medical College, the following appointments were made:
R. C. REEDY, M. D., House Surgeon and Assistant to the Chair
of Surgery, salary $350.
G. G. CAnON, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Ophthalmology
and Otology, salary $100, and Assistant to the Chair of Theory and
Practice of Medicine, salary $100.
EMMIA E. BOWER, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Obstetrics
and Gynsecology, salary $100, and Assistant to the Chair of Materia
Medica, salary $100.
BENJAMIN L. D'OOGE, A. M., was re-appointed Instructor in
Latin for one year, and Arthur WV. Burnett, A. B.,.was re-appointed
Instructor in English and German for one year, each at a salary of
$900.
On July 6th, on the recommendation of Dr. Herdman, who
stated that other members of the Faculty of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery concurred in the the recommendation.
Miss MARY HELEN CULLINGS was appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy at the usual salary of $100.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL, 
AUSTIN BLAIR,         lExecutive Committee.
E. O. GROSVENOR, )
On motion of Regent Clark the report of the Executive
Committee just read was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session; after which the business of the open session was resumed.
The resignation of Prof. C. A. Kent was presented and
read by the President, and on motion of Regent Field, was
accepted and ordered placed on file.
The secretary presented the request of Professor Harrington that water be put in the Observatory buildings for
fire purposes. The Board did not think the pressure in the
mains was sufficient at that elevation to be of any service as
a fire protection, and therefore declined to order it put in.




SPECIAL MEETING, 1886.                 39
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the filling of the vacancy in the Law Faculty
caused by the resignation of Professor Kent, be deferred until the
next meeting of the Board, and that when this Board adjourned it
be to Monday, August 23, at 7 o'clock p. Mi.
The above resolution was adopted by the full vote of the
Board.
Regent Grosvenor, chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the resignation of Mrs. M. J. Gillett, matron of the
Homceopathic College, which was on motion accepted.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Mrs. M. I. Brockenshaw
was appointed matron in the Homceopathic Medical College.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned to
Monday, August 23, at 7 o'clock p. M.
JAMES H. WADE,.
Secretary.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
1886.
ANN ARBOR, 
August 23d, 1886. i
The Board of Regents met in adjourned session in the
room of the President at 7 o'clock P. M.
Present: Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett,
Field, and Whitman.
Absent: Regent Shearer.
Acting President Frieze being ill, was not present. The
meeting was called to order by the Secretary, and on nmtion
of Regent Grosvenoir, Regent Joy was called to the Chair.
On motion of Regent Clark, the resignations of Benjamin L. D'Ooge, Instructor in Latin, and Theodore J. Wrampelmeier, Assistant Professor of Organic Chemistry and
Pharmacy, were accepted.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of.70.00, be and is hereby appropriated for the purchase of one microtome and one dissecting instrument for the use of the Zoological Laboratory.
The resolution of Regent Grosvenor was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willet, Field,
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The Auditing Board submitted.the following report:




42


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


ANN ARBOR, August 23, 1886.
To the the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN,-The Auditing Board to whom was referred the
selection and appointment of two female nurses in the University
Hospital, would respectfully report that they have appointed (subjected to your approval) Miss Lois H. Stoddard and Miss Mary
Cutler. The salary of each to be $150 and board.
HENRY S. FREIZE,
H. SOULE,.            Auditing Board.
JAMES H. WADE,
The report of the Auditing Board was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field,
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion. of Regent Grosvenor, the title of ProFessor
Thomas M. Cooley, was changed to Professor of American
History and Constitutional _Law.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Board went into executive session. After which the business of the open session
was renewed.
On motion of Regent Field, the Board proceeded to elect
a Professor, to fill the vacancy in the Law Faculty, caused by
the resignation of Professor Charles A. Kent. Levi T. Griffin, of Detroit, was elected Fletcher Professor of Law for one
year at a salary of $2,000, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Joy, Clark, Willett, Field,
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING.
1886.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October 12th, 1886..
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President, at 7:00 o'clock P. M.
Present: The President, Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark,
Field, and Whitman.
Absent: Regents Shearer, Joy, and Willett.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Several communications which had been received by the
President, were at his suggestion referred to appropriate
Committees.
The President stated that his annual report had been
prepared and was held subject to the pleasure of the Board.
Regent Field moved that the Board now listen to the
reading of the President's report. Carried.
PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
I beg leave to present to you my annual report for the
year ending Sept. 30th, 1886.
The following changes have been made in the Faculties:
The Executive Committee took action as follows, on
)ec. 8, 1885: Professor William P. Wells having resigned,




44


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


Dec. 1, the Kent Professorship of Law, the Committee appointed Otto Kirchner, of Detroit, to fill the vacancy for the
remainder of the year.  They also appointed Daniel A.
McLachlan, M. D., Professor of Theory and Practice of
Medicine in the Homceopathic Medical College, to take the
place of Professor T. P. Wilson, who was disabled by illness,
and who resigned on the following day, Dec. 9.    They
changed the title of David P. McGuire, M. D., from Associate
Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology in the
Homceopathic Medical College, and the title of Clarence G.
Taylor, from Assistant in Mechanical Engineering to Superintendent of Shops in the Engineering Laboratory. In February, the Executive Committee appointed Dewitt B. Brace,
Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Physics for the second semester.
The above action of the Executive Committee was ratified by the Board at the March meeting, 1886.
During the second semester, Professor Prescott was
absent on leave, and Professor Johnson was in charge of the
Chemical Laboratory, and T. S. Wrampelmeier was Assistant
Professor of Organic Chemistry and Pharmacy.
In June, 1886, H. S. Carhart, A. M., was appointed Professor of Physics, and Charles I. Walker, LL. D., Kent Professor of Law; Jerome C. Knowlton, A. M., was continued Assistant Professor of Law for one year; John Dewey, A. M.,
was promoted from the Instructorship to the Assistant Professorship of Philosophy; Walter Miller, A. M., was appointed
Instructor in Greek, and Jacob E. Reighard, Ph. B., Instructor in Zoology.
Professor Frieze was made Acting President for the
period of President Angell's absence in Europe.
July 19th, Charles A. Kent's resignation of the Fletcher
Professorship of Law, was tendered and accepted; B. L.
D'Ooge, A. M., was reappointed Instructor in Latin; and
Arthur W. Burnett, A. M., was reappointed Instructor in
English and German for one year.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


45


August 23d, Levi T. Griffin, A. M., of Detroit, was
elected Fletcher Professor of Law; Charles M. Gayley being
absent on leave in Europe, and B. L. D'Ooge having resigned
his place as Instructor in Latin, Andrew  C. McLaughlin,
A. B., was appointed in his stead. The title of Thomas M.
Cooley was changed from Professor of History to Professor
of American History and Constitutional Law. The resignation of T. J. Wrampelmeier, Assistant Professor of Organic
Chemistry and Pharmacy, was accepted.
Many of the graduates of the Law School will hear with
regret of the resignations of Professor Kent and Professor
Wells. The former had held his chair continuously since 1868,
and the latter had served with a somewhat prolonged interruption by illness, since 1874. Both had devoted themselves
with fidelity to the school, and by their ability and learning
had left their impress upon it. But while we are called to
part with these experienced teachers, we have the pleasure of
welcoming back Professor Walker, who was connected with
the school before either of the two Professors just named.
He filled the Kent chair of Law from 1859 to 1876.
It is with special pleasure that we see Professor Olney
and Professor Elisha Jones sufficiently recovered from prolonged illness to undertake their work again this year.
Professor D'Ooge is absent on leave as the Director of
the American School of Archaeology at Athens for the coming academic year. The appointment of him to this post is
alike an honor to him and to the University and will as may
be seen, be of real service to our Institution as well as to
the cause of good learning:
The degrees conferred have been as follows:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
B achelor  of  L etters..........................................  5
Bachelor of Science (Course in  Biology).......................  2
"     "   '   (Course  in  Chemistry)....................  3...'       (Course in Mining Engineering)..........  2
"      C' (Course in Mechanical Engineering)......  1




46                 OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.
Bachelor of Science (Course in Civil Engineering)............. 10."          "   (Course in General Science)...............   7
Bachelor of Philosophy.......................................    13
Bachelor  of  A rts.............................................  50
Master of Arts................................      4
Doctor of Philosophy.................................   3
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery).. 83
B achelor  of  Law s..........................................  116
Pharmaceutical Chemist.................................-...       23
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic College)................... 17
Doctor of Dental  Surgery....................................  29
368
HONORARY DEGREES.
Master of Arts...............................................     1
Doctor of Philosophy....................................   1
D octor  of  L aw s..............................................  2
Trotal..............................................................  372
The number of students was as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Resident  Graduates..................................     23
Graduates studying in absentia....................... 12
Candidates for a Degree............................. 476
Students not Candidates for a Degree................ 85 -      596
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
R esident Graduates....................................    2
Third  Year  Students................................  83
Second  Year  Students.................................  114
First Year Students.................................. 128 -    327
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors................................................  118
Juniors................................................  168  -   286
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident  Graduate.....................................    1
Second  Year Students.................................   24
First Year Students...............................    36 -   61
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Students-Total in the College.........................           49




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.                  47
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Students-Total in the College........................  82
1,401
The total attendance the previous year was 1,295. The
largest part by far of the increase this year was in the Literary Department. We were gratified to see that not only was
the number who entered from the preparatory schools larger
than usual, but there was an unprecedented accession of students from other colleges. These last were attracted, as we
think they well may be, by the variety and extent of the advanced instruction which we are able to offer them under our
elective system in the last half of the college course. If the
day should ever come when we could leave to the schools or
the smaller colleges the work now done here in the first two
years of the course, and could bend our energies entirely to
the work of the last two years and to professional instruction,
we should rejoice. It is certain that during the year now
about to begin the attendance in the Literary Department
will be altogether beyond precedent, and that the total attendance in the University will closely approach that of 1881 and
1882.
The women in the University numbered 229. The previous year there were 196. Two years ago there were 180.
The attendance of women this year was distributed as follows:
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts.............. 135
Department of Medicine and Surgery........................ 61
Department of Law..........................................  5
School of Pharmacy.......................................  2
Homceopathic Medical  College..............................  20
College of Dental Surgery.................................   6
229
There is not only an increase in numbers as compared
with the two previous years, but also an increase in the proportion of women to the total attendance. In 1883-4 the wo



8


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


men formed 13 per cent of all the students, in 1884-5, 15 per
cent, in 1885-6 a little over 16 per cent. The experience of
years does not shake our confidence in the wisdom of the
policy of opening our doors to the:women. Every year sees
more and more of the colleges and universities in this country and in Europe extending the privileges of instruction to
them. We hazard little in predicting that most of those institutions which now provide separate instruction for the two
sexes will at no distant day abandon so expensive and unnecessary a system.
The work of the University in all its Departments has
gone on with harmony and marked efficiency. In the light of
our own experience and of the warm discussions upon the
elective system of studies in colleges, we are strongly impressed with the belief that the plan which we are now pursuing in our Literary Department is best adapted to the needs
of the American college student. That plan prescribes about
one-half of his course to each student, covering most of the
work of the first year and a half or two years, and after he is
thus grounded in the more fundamental studies leaves him
large liberty in the choice of his studies for the last two
years of his course. Our so-called university system opens to
advanced students and especially to graduates large opportunities for specialization of study. We thus secure the elementary knowledge of various branches which every scholar
should have and at the same time open to those who are sufficiently mature and advanced to form wise judgments of their
special needs, the privilege of devoting much time to the
studies they may choose.
The demands upon the students in the Law Department
have been made, during the past year, more exacting and rigorous than ever before, and the Faculty have decided to introduce the most important change which has been made in the
method of the school since its establishment. They have
graded the course, and instruction will in the main be given
separately to the two classes. Text-book work and the study




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


49


of leading cases will be combined with instruction by lecture.
The training will, we believe, be more thorough and systematic and effective than it has ever before been.
The Homceopathic Medical College has in large degree
escaped the unpleasant embarrassments from which it has
often suffered by reason of the unfriendly attitude of certain
homceopathic physicians in the State and has had a quiet and
successful year. The result is visible in the larger class which
is presenting itself now. Its prospects have not been so
bright in many years.
The Department of Medicine and Surgery and the
School of Pharmacy have carried on their work with their
usual vigor. Some of the wants of the Medical Department
will be referred to later in this Report.
By the prudent and judicious use of the fund for repairs
given us by the last Legislature the Steward has carried on
the work begun last year so that our buildings are now in
better condition than they have been for many years.  Perhaps the most important improvements completed this year
have been in the Law Building. The reconstruction of the Law
Library room will attract particular attention. The better
lighting gained by the opening of new windows, the hard
wood flooring, the re-arrangement of the books in new cases
easily accessible, adapt the room admirably to its purposes.
The Museum building has been thoroughly examined and the
defects in its original construction have been remedied as far
as possible. A good deal of work has been done at the Observatory. The improvements which the steward has with
the limited means at his command been able to make in our
grounds, you will observe with pleasure.
Cases have been made for the Chinese exhibit, and the
articles have been tastefully arranged in them. The whole of
one room in the Museum is assigned to them, and the value
of this handsome gift of the Chinese Government can now be
appreciated.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


About one-half of the Rogers collection of statuary has
been received and placed in our Art Gallery. This part of the
collection numbers fifty-three statues and groups including
many of the finest works of the eminent sculptor. It is perhaps not so generally understood as it should be that these
casts, being the literal transcripts of the clay as it left the
artist's hand, are more valuable for purposes of instruction in
art than copies wrought in marble, because they reproduce
more exactly the artist's work. One has only to compare the
cast of Nydia with our marble statue of Nydia to perceive
this. When we consider the variety and beauty of the work
in this Rogers collection, we may say with safety that no
collection of statuary comparable with it is to be found in the
gallery of any other of our Universities.
From the reports of the Curators of the Museum, I draw
the following facts. Two important additions have been
made to the Botanical Collection, first a set of North American Fungi, the gift of Joseph B. Whittier, of East Saginaw,
and second, a collection of North American Woods presented
by Prof. C. F. Sargent of the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard
University. The fungi are nmounted ready for use by students. Assistance is needed to care for the botanical collections.
A considerable number of desirable specimens has been
added by gift to the collections in applied chemistry, especially to the pharmaceutical collections.
Director Otto J. Klotz, Astronomer of the Dominion of
Canada, and a graduate of our Literary Department in 1872,
has presented to our paleontological museum a highly interesting collection of fossils from the flanks of the Rocky
Mountains in latitude 57 ~. They are said by the Curator to
represent the primordial zone of life. The locality is hitherto unknown to science, and the species sent appear to be
new.
It will be remembered that most of Dr. Roeminger's
unique collection of fossils is deposited on our shelves. It is




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


so very desirable that we should secure it, that I cannot but
call attention to the danger of our losing it, unless we can
soon fihd the means of purchasing it.
Our Museum of Art has received not only the statuary
above referred to, but also two additions to our collection of
portraits, one of President Tappan, presented by C. H. Denison, Esq., of the claas of 1861, and the other of Professor
Ford, by the last graduating class of the Department of Medicine and Surgery. We very much desire to make large additions to our collection of the portraits of men who have been
benefactors of the University, either by important gifts or by
eminent service as teachers in its Faculties. It would also be
fitting that in the halls of the State University the portraits of
the Governors of the State should be placed.
The other Museums have received no important additions,
as the condition of our treasury has been such that we have
not been able to avail ourselves even of favorable opportunities to increase our scientific collections by purchase.
The report of the Librarian shows that we have now in
all our Libraries 60,201 volumes, 12,267 unbound pamphlets and 212 charts.  Of these there are in the General
Library 47,187 volumes, 11,404 unbound pamphlets and 212
charts; in the Law Library 9,250 volumes; in the Medical
Library 3,3.60 volumes, 872 unbound pamphlets; and in the
Library of the Dental College 404 volumes. The increase in
all the Libraries has been 3,640 volumes and 1,087 pamphlets.
The number of volumes drawn by readers for use in the reading room and by Professors for use out of the building has
been 82,063.
Among the gifts to the Library we may name the
great Piranesi collection of Engravings, 27 volumes, containing 1,577 engravings, presented through Dr. Frieze by a recent
graduate who prefers that his name should not be known; a
collection of English Dramatic works, 240 volumes, presented
through Professor Demmon by a recent graduate who makes
the same modest request as the giver of the engravings con



OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


cerning the disclosure of his name; the addition by James
McMillan, Esq., to the McMillan Shakespearean collection, of
298 volumes and 111 pamphlets of great value purchased from
the Crosby Shakespeare Library of Zanesville, 0., and a number of valuable works added by Philo Parsons, Esq., to the
Parsons Library.
It is with special pleasure that I make mention of the
generous interest manifested in our Library by some of our
German fellow citizens. Having learned of the inadequacy
of our means to provide the needed supply of German literature, they have established the so-called " Goethe Library
Fund," the proceeds of which are to be devoted to the purchase of German books for our Library. The sum of $1,360
has already been raised, and it is confidently expected that
handsome additions will be made to the fund. A thousand
dollars worth of books have already been ordered on the account of this fund.
Now, as always, our prosperity brings with it the call for
larger equipment. It is obvious that we should have a new
building, especially constructed for galleries of art. To display properly the Rogers collection of statuary and the Lewis
collection of pictures we need much larger accommodations
than are afforded by our present galleries in the Library
building. We cannot doubt that in due time the State will
cheerfully furnish a suitable house for these valuable gifts
which have been so generously bestowed upon it by two of its
citizens. The Art Building should have architectural fitness
for the high purpose to which it is to be dedicated.
We are also in pressing need of certain scientific laboratories. We should have without delay a physical laboratory
for instruction in the wide domain of theoretical and applied physics.  Our outfit for teaching this branch should be
materially enlarged. In no department of college work has
greater change been made in our better colleges and scientific
schools during the last few years. The demand for high
training in physics with special reference to practical applica



OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


53


tion, as for example in electrical engineering, is very considerable. A building must be constructed with special regard
to the work in physics. We wish to give to our Professor in
charge of that important department of study, who is a
teacher and investigator of large experience and established
reputation, the materials for securing the greatest efficiency
to his department.
The Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery
also make an urgent request for a laboratory for pathological,
physiological and histological work.  The best medical
schools are coming to give instruction as largely as possible
by laboratory methods, and there can be no question that
these methods present great advantages for imparting instruction in certain branches.  At an early day our medical
school won distinction through its laboratory facilities for
the study of chemistry, when few medical schools offered
such advantages. We must see that we are not now outstripped by other schools in furnishing opportunity for laboratory
work in such other branches as can be best taught in part at
least by the aid of laboratories.
The State Board of Health has also forwarded a request
to us to establish a hygienic laboratory, in which investigations could be made of the adulterations of food and of all
such sanitary problems as it is well to have studied for the
protection of health. There can be no doubt that the State
would receive from such a laboratory, properly organized and
conducted, more than it would cost to establish and maintain
it. In Germany such laboratories are maintained by the
government, and the city of Paris has one which is found to
be of the greatest service to the public.
Probably the medical and hygienic laboratories could all
be provided for under one roof. It is possible that a physical laboratory could be placed in a separate wing, and some
economy in expenditure thus be secured. I commend the
whole subject to your most careful consideration.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


As we expected, the new Engineering Laboratory is completely filled at once on its being opened. The question of
enlargement will force itself on us at an early day. The
equipment should be increased without delay. There is a
strong and growing tendency among young men to prepare
themselves for the various fields of engineering work andfor
the practical application of the sciences to the arts of life. To
all such some part of our shop work is helpful, if not absolutely essential. We have now about 1'20 students of engineering in the University, and the number is steadily increasing year by year.  Our present Engineering Laboratory can
accommodate only 45, and so many only by undue crowding.
We need more room, and we need for those who cal be accommodated more tools and machinery, especially a new
steam engine, and more assistants. The implements for an experimental laboratory for testing machines, steam engines, the
strength of materials, etc., are much desired.  As elsewhere
stated, we should aim at the earliest opportunity to add to
our other engineering work instruction in electrical engineering.
The growth of the Dental College calls for an enlargement of the building they occupy. That growth has been
healthy and promising. It has taken place in the face of a
constant and rapid increase of the requirements for admission
and especially for graduation. When it was organized in
1875 a two years course of six months in each year secured a
degree. Now a student must study dentistry three years and
pursue in that time two courses of nine months each in order
to graduate, and the standard of examinations has been
raised. The success of the graduates, the eagerness with
which in many cases they are invited to settle in important
towns, and the recognition of their diplomas in Europe, attest
the excellence of the instruction. The school has beyond
doubt rendered a most valuable public service by sending
forth well-trained men and women to the important work entrusted to the dental profession. Every year it attracts stun




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


dents from beyond the seas. It is to be hoped that means
may be found to give the school the ampler accommodations
which the present number of students requires. Without such
enlargement it will be necessary to refuse admission to many
applicants.
We need at once to settle upon some carefully considered
plan concerning building upon the campus. It is greatly to
be regretted that when land in the vicinity of the University
was cheap, the Regents had not procured at least a hundred
acres. But no one could in the early days foresee the needs
which we now experience. Our forty acres seemed a liberal
supply.  But already we are finding ourselves crowded,
while yet at no distant time, and we hope very soon, we shall
be called to find sites for the art gallery, the gymnasium,
and several laboratories. If we could at once remove the dissecting room and the hospitals from the campus to some
eligible site, not far away, I should deem it very wise to
make the removal. It would be well if we had a large field
for the sports of the students. More room than we have is
now desired by them for ball grounds and tennis courts, and
we can of course never have fine lawns on ground which is
used for either ball or tennis. The expediency of acquiring
more land before the growth of the city carries the price still
higher than it now is seems to me well worthy of consideration.
The report of the Finance Committee will doubtless
show that the aid furnished to our repair and contingent
fund was of very essential service. It is very desirable that
such aid be again furnished, since it is far more economical
to keep our buildings in repair than to allow them to get into
so bad a condition as they were in two years ago. A smaller
sum will suffice for the next two years than we asked before.
By the closest economy and by heroically refusing our various
departments many things which they greatly needed, and by
pinching salaries, we have somewhat improved the condition
of our treasury. The new appraisal of the property of the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


State so increases the valuation that the one-twentieth mill
tax will yield about $6,700 more than heretofore. We may
count on an enlarged income from students' fees for the year
1886-7. Still our needs are so many and so pressing that we
must rely on the constant aid of the State. For many years
now that aid has been so cheerfully furnished that we do not
allow ourselves to doubt that it will be continued. The simple truth is that the State now holds property here representing a greater value than all the money it has raised for the
support of the University. The service which the University has rendered to the State by the education of its sons and
daughters has been a clear gain to the State. We believe that
the slight burden, which we ask her to take upon herself in
securing a larger usefulness to the Institution and so a larger
blessing to her own children, will be cheerfully borne by her
in the future as it has been in the past.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
Regent Field presented the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the report of the President be accepted and
printed in the minutes, and that one thousand extra copies be
printed and bound in paper covers, for the use of the Board and of
the University.
The President presented and read the following report:
UNIVERSITY OF MICIIGAN, t
October 12, 1886. t
To the Board of Regents;
Mr. T. J. Wrampelmeier having resigned the chair of Assistant Professor of Organic Chemistry and Pharmacy, the Executive
Committee on September 23, last, appointed Alviso B. Stevens, Ph.
C., a skilful pharmacist of Detroit, Instructor in Pharmacy for the
current academic year, at a salary of $1,000. They also appointed
Fred. G. Novy, B. S., Assistant in Organic Chemistry for 1886-7 at
the salary of $200, and Edgar D. Smith, Ph. C., Assistant in Pharmacy for 1886-7 at the salary of $160.
It is understood that Mr. Stevens assisted by Mr. Smith will
take the principal portion of the work in Pharmacy heretofore
performed by Dr. Prescott and Mr. Wrampelmtier, and that Dr.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


Prescott, assisted by Mr. Novy, will take the work in Organic
Chemistry heretofore done by \Mr. Wrampelmeier.
These changes do not increase the sum expended for salaries
heretofore.
September 2d, the Committee appointed A. C. McLaughlin,
A. B., Instructor in Latin for one year at a salary of $900, in place
of B. L. D'Ooge who resigned to accept a Professorship in the
Normal School.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
CHAS. 1E. WHITMAN,
E. O. GROSVENOR.
On motion of Regent Field the report of the Executive
Committee just read was accepted and adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair from   the Law Committee presented and
read a letter from  Levi T. Griffin, accepting the Fletcher
Professorship in the Law Department to which he had been
appointed at the last meeting of the Board, which was on
motion, accepted and placed on file.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Board listened to the
following report of the Librarian:
To the Honorable the Board Regtnts of the University of Michigan:
The following report on the Libraries of the University covers
the twelve months between Oct. 1st, 1885, and Sept. 30, 1886. It is
submitted at this time in accordance with the law defining the
duties of the Librarian.
The Libraries are four in number, viz.: The General Library,
the Law Library, the Medical Library, and the Library of the Dental College. They contained Sept. 30th, the end of the period covered by this report, 60,201 volumes, 12,267 unbound pamphlets,
and 212 charts.
The distribution of the books is as follows:
In the General Library there are 47,187 volumes, 11,404 unbound pamphlets, and 212 charts.




58


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


In the Law Library there are 9,250 volumes.
In the Medical Library there are 3,360 volumes, and 872 unbound pamphlets.
In the Library of the Dental College there are 404 volumes.
The additions to the General Library during the year have
been 3,057 volumes, 877 unbound pamphlets, and 1 chart. Of
these 1,511 volumes and 30 pamphlets were bought; 1,179 volumes
and 847 pamphlets were presented, and 367 volumes were the result of binding periodicals.
The expenditures for this library, so far as the bills came to
me for endorsement, were $4,477.96. Of this sum $3,346.17 were
paid for books and pamphlets; $468.44 for subscriptions to periodicals, and $663.35 for binding, rebinding, and mending volumes.
This was all paid out of the special fund for the purchase of books.
There was also paid out of the current expense fund for catalogue
cards, readers' tickets, book supports, &c., $72.10.
The Legislature of 1885 appropriated $10,000 for the Libraries
of the University, $5,000 for the year 1885, and $5,000 for the year
1886.
The division of this by the Board was as follows:
FOR THE YEAR 1885.
To  the General Library.......................................................$3,000
To  the  Law   Library............................................................  1,000
To  the  M edical Library..................................................  1,000
FOR THE YEAR 1886.
To the General Library......................$................................ $3,500
To  the  Law   Library..........................................................  1,01'0
To the Medical Library......................................................  500
Of the two sums assigned to the General Library, making together $6,500, there remained unexpended Sept. 30th, $1,484.78. I
have since that date turned over to the Steward unpaid bills
amounting to $218.20. There are outstanding orders for books
that will cover quite $250 more. This reduces the unexpended
balance to about $1,000, which sum must meet all our expenses
until another appropriation shall be made by the Legislature of
1887.  Out of tie sum of $1,000 must necessarily be paid the subscriptions to periodicals for 1887, which will exceed $450, and something for binding and mending and continuations. There cannot
possibly remain much for the purchase of books.
When the Legislative appropriation for the Libraries for the
year 1886 was divided by the Board in Nov. 1885, 1 had the honor in




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


59


connection with Professor Pettee, of presenting for your consideration certain needs of the General Library. I called attention, at
that time, to the fact that the University had post graduate students 'in attendance, and that she was using every proper endeavor
to increase the number of them. Now the post graduate's method
of work is different from that of the undergraduate. He concentrates his energies on one subject for the whole period of his stay
at the University. Those who make specialties of Literature.
History, Philosophy, Language, and the phases of Political Science, are entirely dependent for material with which to work,
upon the library, while those working at the Physical Sciences and
Natural History are largely dependent upon it.
What do we have to meet the demands of students working
in these special directions?
We have in English Literature a good collection for the
study of Shakespeare, and a good beginning of a collection for the
study of English Dramatic Literature in general. In German
Literature we shall have in the course of the year a good collection for the study of Goethe and his period.  But nowhere
except in the three instances named, is there, in all the realm of
literature, a department, or a period, or an author, adequately represented. This lack is emphasized every time a post graduate
asks to see the literature of the subject to which he proposes to
give his time.
In History and Political Science the lack is not so conspicuous. The Parsons Library and the collection presented by an unknown benefactor of the library, through Professor C. K. Adams,
add greatly to the strength of these departments; but there is still
very much lacking, especially in the department of History.
The Physical sciences are fairly well represented, but in the
literature of Natural Iistory we are lamentably weak. In the department of Philosophy, also, our collection is far from full.
Can these departments, and others not named, be brought up
with the sums that we have been accustomed to receive for the
purchase of books?
I will go into particulars on the subject. The average sum annually at the disposal of the library for the last nine years-since
the Legislature began to make special appropriations for it-has
been about 83,700. This includes the large appropriation of $15,090, made for the years 1883-84.




60


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


The phrase purchase of books has been interpreted to cover
subscriptions to periodicals, and the cost of binding and mending,
and transportation-the transportation of both purchases and
gifts. The average yearly cost of these three things, viz.: subscriptions to periodicals, binding and mending, and transportation, is
about $1,200.  Deducting this from the.3,700 there remains $2,500. It has been found necessary to have a reserve-something
with which to buy books of general reference, and books that pertain to departments of literature that are not represented by
chairs of instruction, as Art, Theology, Philology, Bibliography,
and something, also, to make Our bills good when the cost of books
has been underestimated. This reserve has been about one-third of
the sum remaining after the periodicals, binding and transportation
have been provided for. Reduced by one-third $2,500 becomes
$1,663. This divided among the 23 departments of instruction
gives to each a little less than $73 for the year.
While this may suffice for some of the departments of which
the literature is not large, how far will it go towards supplying the
wants of others of which the literature is large? Of Zoology, for
instance, which covers Biology, and Comparative Anatomy, as
well as that literature which describes and classifies the varied
forms of animal life? This sum will barely pay for the numbers
of Tryon's Manual of Conchology which are issued during a year,
and which are necessary for the identification of the shells in the
Museum. How far will it go towards supplying the wants of the
department of English Literature which covers Grammar, Rhetoric,
Literary History and Criticism, as well as the works of the Standard Authors of England and America? The new Scholar's edition
of Wordsworth, by Knight, alone costs $50.00.
It is evident that we cannot meet the needs of this post
graduate class of students without more funds than we have been
accustomed to have. It is, also, evident that we must meet these
needs or run the risk of losing, the students. The University is
competing for them with institutions that have large libraries
with large incomes.
I, therefore, urge upon the Board the importance of securing
from the Legislature of 1887 as liberal an appropriation as possible. Also, events lead me to suggest that a specified sum be asked
for for each library, rather than one sum to be divided among the
libraries subsequently.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


61


Attention is particularly called to the large number of books
and pamphlets presented, viz.: 1,179 volumes, and 847 pamphlets,
or more than a third of all the additions to the library. Among
the benefactors of this year are found those of former years.
Mr. McMillan furnished money to buy from the Shakespeare
library of Mr. Joseph Crosby of Zanesville, O., which had come to
sale, all the books contained in it which were not found in the
McMillan Shakespeare Collection. These additions, consisting of
298 volumes and 111 pamphlets, bring our Shakespeare collection
up to 3,000 volumes and more. Mr. Parsons has made very valuable additions to the collection bearing his name. Dr. S. A. Green,
Librarian of the Massachusetts Historical Society continues to
send parcels of books and pamphlets.
Other benefactors have arisen, but they are unknown. One,
through Dr. Frieze, has contributed money for the purchase of the
Piranesi collections of Engravings; 27 volumes containing 1,577
engravings of great interest and value. Another, through Professor Demmon, has furnished money for the beginning of a Dramatic
Collection. With this money 240 volumes consisting chiefly of collections of plays, and works of individual dramatists, have been
bought.
About a year ago Professor Thomas conceived the idea of interesting the German citizens of the state in the establishment of
a Goethe Library in the University, which should be a part of the
General Library. The idea was carried out very successfully, as is
already known to the Board. The contributions now amount to
81,200. Orders for books have been given to the amount of $800,
and the books have already reached New York from Germany.
Many gifts have come to the Library from men in the service
of the University, and from Alumni in different parts of the
country. These have been prompted by the warmest affection for
the University, and frequently have been accompanied by expressions of such affection.
The use of the Library continues to be gratifying; we cannot
however, now make it a matter of record to the extent that we
have been accustomed to do. Each year that we have been in the
new building there has been a small decrease in the number of
books used in the Reading Room. On the other hand, however,
there has been a constantly increasing demand for accommodation
in the Seminary Rooms, and for permission to visit the Book Room.




62


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


All my observation leads me to believe that on the whole, there is
an increased use of the Library from year to year:
The number of volumes' drawn and used in the Reading Room
w as............................................  79,380
The number drawn out by Professors................  2,683
In   all.....................................82,063  vols.
Tickets of admission to the Book room were granted to 21
persons, who made 413 visits to the shelves.
In the course of both semesters 204 students were admitted to
the Seminary Rooms-128 to the West Room for the study of English Literature, Latin, Greek, and Classical Art, and 76 to the East
Room for the study of History, Political Economy, Philosophy,
and the art of Teaching.
Seven volumes have disappeared. Three of them belonged to
the main collection, viz.: Green's Short History of England, Eng.
Edition Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, and Fairbairn's Studies in
the Philosophy of Religion and History.  Two were from the
Chemical Laboratory, viz.:  Wohler's Inorganic Analysis, and
Tidy's Chemistry. Two were from the Botanical Rooms, viz.:
Poulsen's Micro-Chemistry, and The National Dispensatory, 1880.
A faithful search has been made for these without success,
and I feel it my duty to report them; still I am not without hope
that some of them may yet return to us.
Two volumes have been used up and laid aside, viz:-Wilson's
French and English Dictionary, and Spier's and Surenne's French
and English Dictionary.
The books are, generally, in a good condition.
MEDICAL LIBRARY.
The Medical Library has been much strengthened during the
year by the addition of new editions of standard works, and many
new books. Many gaps have been filled in sets of periodicals. The
strength of this library lies in its sets of bound periodicals. The
additions during the year have been 454 volumes and 145 pamphlets. Of these, 282 volumes and 1 pamphlet were bought, 13 volumes and 144 pamphlets were presented, and 149 volumes were the
result of binding periodicals.
The total of bills endorsed by me for this library was $1,157.68.
Of this amount, $790.26 were for books, $218.97 for periodicals, and




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


$148.45 for binding. The use of this collection is included in the
statistics for the General Library. The books of both collections
are shelved in one building and handled by one set of attendants.
LIBRARY OF THE DENTAL COLLEGE.
The purchases for the Library of the Dental College are made
by the Dean of the College out of the special funds of his department. I cannot, therefore, report in regard to expenditures. The
books are kept in closed cases in the Faculty room of the College
building. They are all in very good order. At no remote period,
additional shelf room will be required, The extent of the collection, as stated in the beginning of this report, is 404 volumes.
THE LAW LIBRARY.
I give, verbatim, the report on the Law Library made to me
by Mr. Vance, the assistant in charge.
"Amount expended from Oct. 1, 1885, to Sept. 30, 1886.... $1,087.18
No. of periodicals taken.................................. 10
Books added  during  the  year............................. 195 vols.
IMPROVEMENTS IN THE LIBRARY ROOM.
During the year a new hardwood floor has been laid; the old
book cases have been altered, new book cases suitable in design
and appropriate in style have been constructed and placed in position. Four new windows have been made, and to the walls of the
room the color has been given best suited to the purposes of a
reading room. The combined result of these changes and improvements is that the Library Room of the Law Department is considered to be superior to any other room similar in character in the
State and probably second to no other library room connected with
any Law School in the country."
There is one thing I wish to add to Mr. Vance's report. During the last part of last year it was represented to me by students
that the statutes of the different States were not possessed by the
Law Library, and that there was frequent need of them. It occurred to me that some of them might be given, on application,
and I accordingly wrote in the vacation to most of the State
governments, asking for copies of their Revised Statutes and
Session Laws passed after the last revision, for our Law
Library, if they were accustomed, on solicitation, to send
them to the libraries of Law Schools. To about one-quarter of my
applications there have been favorable responses, and in reply to
nearly all the others have come expressions of regret that no law




64


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


existed which made compliance possible. As the matter stands,
the Revised Statutes and Session Laws of Ohio, Pennsylvania,
Missouri, New Hampshire, and Illinois, Nevada, and Rhode Island
have been received. Those of Maine and Massachusetts are promised. The number of volumes in this library, as stated earlier, is
9,250 volumes. This is exclusive of the volumes of Laws just referred to, which have not yet been placed in the Library.
Certain changes have taken place in the force engaged in the
General Library. Mr. R. F. Eldredge, general assistant, has been
succeeded by Mr. G. F. James, of the class of '86. Mr. F. C. Hicks,
and Mr. T. H. McNeil, assistants in charge of the Seminary Rooms,
have been succeeded by Mr. A. J. Covell and Mr. G. W. Lacea.
Mr. Osgood Ingalls and Mr. F. M. Sessions, desk attendants,
have been succeeded by Mr. D. C. Worcester, and Mr. F. F. Lehman
In all cases the compensation has been unchanged.
Very respectfully submitted,
R. C. DAVIS,
Librarian.
On motion of Regent Field the report of the Librarian
was accepted and ordered printed in the minutes.
Professor Frieze presented and read the following communication from the Secretary of the Senate:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
At a meeting of the University Senate held last evening a
communication was presented from Harvard University inviting
the University of Michigan to participate by a delegate in the
celebration of the 250th anniversary of the founding of Harvard,
to be held on the 6th, 7th and 8th of November next, and a committee consisting of Professors Frieze, T. M. Cooley, Palmer,
Rogers and Prescott, was appointed to act in conjunction with
your Board in the selection of a delegate.
Respectfully yours.
MW. H. PETTEE,
Secretary of the Senate.
Regent Blair moved that the President appoint a committee of three to act with the Senate Committee in selecting
a delegate to represent the University of Michigan at the
celebration of the 250th anniversary of Harvard University.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


65


The motion prevailed and the President named Regents
Blair, Field and Grosvenor as such committee.
Regent Blair, chairman of special committee to select a
delegate to attend the anniversary celebration of Harvard
University, reported that they had made choice of President
Angell, and recommended that the Auditing Board be authorized to pay the expenses incurred by him while acting as such
delegate.
The above report and recommendation were adopted by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor presented a form of receipt to be
given by the Treasurer to donors to the German American
Goethe Library Fund of the University.  On motion the
form was adopted, and the Steward instructed to cause the
same to be printed for immediate use.
Regent Grosvenor presented and read the following
resignations in the Iomceopathic Medical College; of Emma
E. Bower, Assistant to the Chair of Obstetrics, and Assistant
to the Chair of Materia Medica. R. C. Reedy, M. D., House
Surgeon and Assistant to the Chair of Surgery. G. G. Caron,
M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Ophthalmology and the
Chair of Theory and Practice. On motion of Regent Grosvenor the foregoing resignations were accepted.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
read a communication from the Homceopathic Medical Faculty in which the following appointments were recommended:
George G. Caron, M. D., to be House Surgeon and Assistant
to the Chair of Theory and Practice of Medicine, salary $350.
Harold B. Wilson, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Ophthalmology and Otology, salary $100, and Assistant to the Chair
of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, salary
$100; and Frank A. Johnson, M. D., to be Assistant to the
Chair of Surgery, salary $100, and Assistant to the Chair of
Materia Medica, salary $100.




66


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the above recommendations of the Homeopathic Faculty were approved by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair read the following communication from
Professor M. W. Harrington, Director of the Observatory:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., I
October 13, 1886. 
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-I need in my department a good astronomical
globe. Those I have are antiquated and out of repair. Mr. Morley
has shown me Bailey's Cosmosphere, and 1 find it well suited to my
purpose. Mr. Morley will have the Cosmosphere set up for inspection. I think it the best instrument of the kind now on the
market, and am sure that if purchased it will increase the efficiency of instruction in astronomy.
I regret that I cannot be present personally at the meeting to
call the attention of members of the Board to the especial excellencies of this apparatus.
Very respectfully,
M. W. HARRINGTON.
Mr. Morley being present, was invited by the Board to
explain the working of his Cosmosphere, after which on motion of Regent Blair the matter was referred to the Committee on "Observatory and School of Mines."
The following communication was received from     the
Faculty of the Law Department:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: At a meeting of the Board held on Oct. 14th,
1885, a resolution was adopted, calling on the Faculty of Law to
consider whether certain changes might not be made with advantage in the course of instruction pursued in the Law Department.
The Faculty having taken the matter into consideration, found
themselves unable to agree on any fundamental changes in. the
system pursued, owing to certain differences of opinion among
themselves, and they accordingly reported to the Board at a meeting in March, 1885, that any change in the methods of instruction
was, in their judgment, at that time impracticable.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


67


Since that report was transmitted to the Board, changes have
taken place in the Faculty itself, and the present members of that
body are now unanimously agreed upon certain very fundamental
changes in the course of instruction.
(1). We deem it advisable that the course of instruction should
be a graded one, and the lectures delivered to the two classes separately, the more elementary subjects to be assigned to the junior
year, and the more complicated postponed to the senior year.
This change exacts much more labor from the Professors, requiring them in one year to deliver the lectures formerly delivered
in two years. But they are willing to take upon themselves the
additional labor in the hope of thereby promoting the efficiency of
the Department, and of enhancing the reputation of the University
itself.
(2). The system of instruction by text-books has proved very
satifactory, and while we are not at all of the opinion that instruction by lectures should be supplanted by the use of text-books, we
are firmly persuaded that it would be a great misfortune to the
Department if the text-book instruction were to be abandoned.
We therefore have thought that this system of instruction should
be continued with the Junior class as heretofore, and also that it
should be extended to the Senior class during the second Semester.
The extension of the system to the Senior class will devolve on the
Assistant Professor a largely increased amount of labor, which
he is very cheerfully prepared to render.
(3). As much instruction can be derived from a proper study
of leading cases, the Faculty have thought it well that such a
study should be made a feature of the instruction given during the
Senior year. Such instruction has been given in other law schools
of the country, and has been found to be of very great benefit to
the students. We hope and believe that similarly happy results
will attend its introduction into our course.
Having reached the conclusion that the above noted changes
in the course of instruction would be to the advantage of the Department and should not be postponed, but made applicable to the
current College year, the Faculty ventured to open the school on
October 1st under a system of instruction embodying the ideas advanced in this communication. We preferred to begin the new
year upon the new plan, inasmuch as it would be less difficult
to change afterwards from the new system to the old if the Board




68


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886,


disapproved this change, than it would be to change from the old
to the new after the work of the year had once commenced.
In an appendix hereunto annexed will be found in detail the
system of instruction which we are now pursuing.
We hereby respectfully submit our action in the matter to the
consideration of the Board, hoping that it may meet with cordial
approval, and at the same time we desire to express our willingness to conform to the wishes of the Board, if in your opinion it is
wise to modify in any way the plan we are now pursuing.
We cannot conclude our report without calling attention to
the desirability of having some instruction given in the Law School
on the subject of Medical Jurisprudence. For years the Faculty
of Advocates in Scotland has insisted that every gentleman who is
called to the Scotch Bar should have studied Forensic Medicine.
While this has not been insisted on in this country, it is agreed that
a knowledge of the subject is very desirable. We would therefore
recommend to the Board that Edward S. Dunster, M. D., be appointed a Lecturer in the Law Department on Special Heads of
Medical Jurisprudence, that Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., be appointed a Lecturer in the Law Department on Toxicology; and
that Charles H. Stowell, M. D., be appointed a Lecturer in the Law
Department on Legal Microscopy.
We make these recommendations after conference with the
gentlemen named, and with the assurance upon their part of entire
willingness to give the instruction desired in addition to the instruction given by them in the Medical Department. It is intended that this instruction, if authorized by the Board, shall be given
at such hours as not to conflict with or in any manner curtail the
instruction now being given in this Department.
We would also suggest that it would increase the efficiency of
the Department, if a special lecturer on Admiralty Law could
be appointed to deliver a few lectures upon that subject to the
Senior class. There is no provision for instruction upon that subject, and it never has been possible to give any adequate instruction therein in the past. A special lecturer might be appointed
for that particular subject at very little expense. But we do not
urge that any action be taken at this meeting of the Board so far
as this appointment is concerned.
We would also call the attention of the Board to the desirability of making some provision for the training of law students




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.                 69
in Forensic Elocution. In some of the Law Schools of the country
opportunity is afforded for training of this character, and we cannot prudently neglect providing such instruction here. If an instructor in Elocution should be appointed, he could give instruction both in the Law and Literary Departments; but in our judgment his work should be so arranged that he could give at least as
much time to the training of the students in this Department as
to those in the Literary Department, not only because his classes
would be as large in the one Department as they would be in the
other, but also because it is more important that law students
should receive such training than it is for any other class of students in the University.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
HENRY WADE ROGERS.
H. B. HUTCHINS.
C. I. WALKER.
LEVI T. GRIFFIN.
J. C. KNOWLTON.
APPENDIX.
In the Lecture Course the assignment of topics is made as
follows:


JUNIOR YEAR.
Crim inal Law............................. 
T orts................................... 
R eal  E state..............................
E asem ents............................
The Origin, History and Nature of Equity l
Jurisprudence....................... 
The Maxims of Equity................     J
Contracts................................
Agency...................................
P artnership..............................
Evidence................................
Common Law      Pleading and Practice in
Cases  at  Law........................
SENIOR YEAR.
Constitutional Law........................
Domestic   Relations......................
W ills....................................
TheAdministration and Distttribution of 
E states.............................J


Professor Rogers.
Professor Hutchins.
Professor Walker.
Professor Griffin.


Professor Cooley.
Professor Rogers.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


Equity Jurisprudence................rofessor      utch
Equity Pleading and Procedure.........  P  esso   utc
Personal Property........................
Bills and Notes, and Commercial Law     ProfessorWalker.
Generally....................... 
Private and Municipal Corporations.....
Jurisprudence of the United States.......  Professor  riffin
International  Law.................           r.
As to Text Book instruction the arrangement is as follows:
The members of the Junior class will be required to attend
daily recitations in Cooley's edition of Blackstone's Commentaries,
Anson on Contracts, and Schouler on Bailments. This work will
be done under the direction of Assistant Professor Knowlton, and
will continue throughout the Junior year. The class will meet at
8 o'clock A. M.
All members of the Senior class will during the second
semester attend recitations in Gould on Pleading, and such of
them as may so elect can attend recitations in Pomeroy on Remedies and Remedial Rights (Code Pleading). Students who come
from Code States will be expected to attend regular recitations in
this work, and they will find the instruction thus obtained invaluable in their subsequent practice. Students from States where the
reformed procedure has not been introduced, may or may not, at
their option, attend such recitations. But students from Code
States are expected to attend the recitations in Gould on Pleading,
as well as in Pomeroy, inasmuch as the works on common law
pleading are not superseded by the codes, and it is thought that a
careful study of such works is the best preparation for the pleader
whether he practices under the old or the new procedure. This
work will also be under the direction of Assistant Professor
Knowlton, The class will meet at nine o'clock A. Ir.
As to the instruction in Leading Cases, the following announcement has been made:
THE STUDY OF LEADING CASES.
As much instruction can be derived from a proper study of
what are known as Leading Cases, and inasmuch as it is desirable
that students should be familiar with the more important of these
cases, they are requested to purchase "Indermaur's Common Law
Cases." They will be expected to make themselves familiar with
the cases contained in that work, and they will be examined upon




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


71


them during the year by one or more of the professors at such
times as shall be hereafter announced.
And upon the subject of Examinations the following announcement has been made:
EXAMINATIONS.
At the end of the year the members of the Junior and Senior
classes will be subjected to an oral and written examination both
upon the lectures and the text-book work.
The members of the Junior class will be required to pass
these examinations as a condition precedent of their admission
into the Senior class.
Regent Blair submitted the following resolutions which
were adopted:
Resolved, That this Board approves the action of the Law
Faculty in making the changes in the course of instruction in the
Law Department, outl.ned in the communication this day received,
and that hereafter instruction in that Department shall proceed
according to the plan lately put in operation by the Faculty.
Resolved further, That the part of said communication which
recommends appointments and instruction' upon other subjects
than those previously taught in the Law School, be referred to the
Law Committee of this Board with instructions to report thereon
at the next meeting.
Professor J. B. Steere, on behalf of the City Council, addressed the Board urging the desirableness of the Board
placing two electric lights on the tower of the main building.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the matter was referred to
the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
Regent Clark presented the following communication
from the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: All the requirements for the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist have been completed by Mr. William Douglas
Codnon, and he is recommended to you for that degree.
By direction of the Faculty,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Dean.
Memorandum. Mr. Condon had completed the requirements for graduation




72


OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


in June last, but could not be present on Commencement Day, as required by University law for graduation at that time. The Faculty, therefore, have directed me
to present his name to the Regents for action at the October Meeting.
A. B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on William Douglas Condon, in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
School of Pharmacy.
Regent Whitman presented and read the following comnunication from   Professor Frieze, Dean of the Literary
Faculty:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: I have the honor of presenting to the University in behalf of an Alumnus who prefers to withhold his name, a
collection of the complete works of Giovanni Battista Piranesi, the most distinguished Roman engraver of the eighteenth
century. The collection embraces fifteen hundred plates, printed
on folio pages, with an explanatory text. They were executed under the patronage of the papal government.
They are universally regarded as masterpieces of the art of
engraving.  The subjects represented by them are the architectural remains of ancient Rome and many of the most important
medieval and modern works of art in the modern Roman museums and palaces.
This collection is a most valuable accession to the art treasures possessed by the University, and, we have reason to hope, is
the beginning of similar gifts destined to build up, what the University at present much needs, a complete art library. The purchase of the Piranesi collection was made by Professor Elisha
Jones with funds placed in his hands for this purpose during his
recent visit to Rome.
HENRY S. FRIEZE,
Dean Literary Faculty.
At the conclusion of the reading of the above communication, Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the communication from Professor Frieze be
accepted, and 'that he be requested to convey to this unknown
donor the cordial thanks of the Board for his valuable contribution to the Department of Art in this University.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1886.


73


The resolution of Regent Whitman was adopted by the
unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board adjourned to
to-morrow morning at 8:30 o'clock A. M.
MORNING         SESSION,
WEDNESDAY, October 13, 1886.
The Board reassembled in the President's room at 8:30
A. M.
Present-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark and Whitman.
There being no quorum present, the Board listened to
Dr. Vaughan, who presented the request of the "State Board
of Health," that the Board of Regents establish a "Hygienic
Laboratory," in the University. By common consent, the
matter was referred to the Medical Faculty and the State
Board of Health, to consider fully, and report at some future
meeting of the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned to December "ith, at 7
o'clock P. M.
JAMES H. WADE.
Secretary.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
1886.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,          t
December 7th, 1886.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President, at 7:00 o'clock P. M.
Present: The President, Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark,
Willett, and Field.
Absent: Regents Shearer, Joy, and Whitman..
The meeting was called to order by the President.
Sundry papers which had reached the President, were at
his suggestion, referred  to appropriate Committees of the
Board.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
presented and read the following report:
To the Board of Regents:
The Finance Committee herewith present the Treasurer's
statement' of receipts and disbursements for the fiscal year ending
September 30th, 1886, also their estimates of receipts and expenditures for the year ending September 30th, 1887.
Your Committee have caused the books and vouchers of the
Treasurer to be examined and compared with the accounts of the
Secretary and have found satisfactory evidence of the correctness
of the Treasurer's report, although a few vouchers are incomplete
and not in the usual form. The sums involved are small, being
remittances for purchases made in Europe.  The proper vouchers
when received will be placed on file. It will be seen by the
Treasurer's report that there is a larger balance in the Treasury
than was estimated a year ago. This has arisen in part from increased receipts from students' fees and miscellaneous sources, and
in part from a reduction in current expenses. The principal re



76


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


ductions have been made in the estimates for repairs and contingent expenses, for fuel and lights and for chemical laboratory supplies, some of the repairs contemplated having necessarily been
postponed until another year and the exceptionally mild winter of
1885-86 having effected an unexpected saving in fuel.
This apparent gain will be affected in part by an outstanding
indebtedness of about $5,000, as follows: $2,000 for bills already
audited and payable on demand and about $3,000 for fuel and
laboratory supplies purchased and received or in transit, for which
bills have not been audited.
The slight improvement in the condition of the finances has
been accomplished only by the exercise of the most rigid economy,
and the Auditing Board should be heartily commended for their
watchful care in avoiding all unnecessary expenditures and for
enforcing all economies inaugurated by the Board.
In the judgment of your Committee economy must be continued, and appropriations from the Legislature must be secured
to provide for any increase of salaries or of teaching force as well
as for all new buildings or other permanent improvements that
may be needed.
In the estimate of receipts for the ensuing year, the Committee have assumed that the next Legislature will provide at least
the same amount as in former years for the support of the Homoeopathic Medical College, the Hospitals, the College of Dental Surgery and for assistance in the Engineering Laboratory.
The estimate of expenditures includes the usual items. The
sums standing to the credit of the Engineering Laboratory and
of the Libraries are unexpended balances of the appropriations
for those purposes. For anything in excess of these sums we
must depend upon the Legislature.
The estimate of $5,000.00 for the Rogers collection is based on
what was expended for transportation and placing in its present
position the portion already received. The expense attendant
upon the acceptance of Mr. Rogers's munificent gift, and of the
New Orleans Chinese Collection presented by the Chinese Governmnent, it is anticipated will be reimbursed by the Legislature.
Respectfully submitted,
E. O. GROSVENOR, Chairman,
MOSES W. FIELD,
C. J. WILLETT.




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.                                      77
Estimate of Receipts for the Year Ending September 30th, 1887.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1886............................... $ 17,173 71
To be received for University interest....................................   38,000 00
"     "   from State 1-20 Mill Tax...................................   43,875 00
"   < "t Homoeopathic Department..................                    6,000 00."         " " Students' Fees and Laboratory Deposits.............     63,000 00
" *'. Sale of Dental Supplies..............................   3,000 00
" " " Sale of Anatomical Material.........................               400 00
"    "     "  Sale of Medicine at University Hospital..............      500 00
"     "     "  Sale of Medicine at Homceopathic Hospital..........          200 00
'     "     "  Matron University Hospital.........................         700 00." " "        Interest on Bank Deposits...........................       500 00
Appropriations Expected from          the Legislature.
For University Hospital..................................... $ 5,000 00
"  College of Dental Surgery.............................    8,000 00
" Homceopathic Medical College........................ 6,200 00
Assistant Engineering Laboratory......................      1,000 00     20,200 00
$193,548 71
Estimate of Expenses.
For Salaries of Professors, Officers and Employees..................... $ 139,000 00
"  Alterations  and  Repairs..........................................  5,000  00
"  Fuel and  Lights......................................................  10,000  00
Current Expenses of General Library.............................          300 00
'....          Medical    "...........................       50 00
"  '        "       Law        "..............................     50 00
Grounds.....................................................     500 00
" P  ostag e...........................................................  500  00
" Insurance........................................................  1,700  00
"  Calendar, Regents' Proceedings and Miscellaneous Printing......          2,000 00
"  Current Expenses of Museum....................................            300 00
"Supplies for Chemical Laboratory................................    5,000 00
" "         Botanical "...............................    100  00
"      H istological    "................................     200  00
" " Physiological              ".................................    200  00
~*'  "      Engineering      "...............................  4  00
M'       icroscopical    "................................    200  00
i'      '     Physical         "...............................  400  00
" "           General  (Chem istry.....................................    500  00.".      Zoological Laboratory................................        100 00
"  Current Expenses in the Engineering Department..................          400 00
"  "         "..Astronomical Observatory..................      300 00
"  Anatomical Material.............................................       2,500 00
Advertising Literary Department...................................        300 00
'      "     Medical       "..................................       200 00
Law              "..................................       200 00
Pharmacy             "...................................  200 00
"Purchase of Books for General Library (Balance of Appropriation)           3,303 27
Engineering Laboratory                        7"              (              771 69




78                 ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.
For Transportation of the Rogers Collection........................... $ 3,500 00
" Current Expenses of University Hospital...........................  5,000 00
~"       "      Homceopathic Department..................   4,000 00
Dental College...............................  2,500 00
"  Lease of W ater Privilege........................................  75  00
"  Purchase and  filling  of Diplomas.................................  650 00
"  Comm  encem ent  Exercises.........................................  1,200  00
"  Taxes on  Lots in  Springwells.....................................  100  00
"  Sem i-Centennial  Celebration.......................................  1,000  00
Balance on hand, September 30th, 1887......................  848 75
$ 193,548 71
The University having advanced the sum             of $3,769.96 for
transporting    and   placing the Rogers      and Chinese Collections,
the State will be asked to reimburse us in that amount. If this is
done, the balance on hand September 30th, 1887, will be increased
by that amount.
TREASURERS' REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit a statement of the receipts
and disbursements of this Office for and during the fiscal year ending with September 30th, 1886.
Respectfully,
IH. SOULE,
Treasurer.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury October 1st, 1885...................... $ 22,153 86
From State Treasurer, 1-20 Mill Tax.........................  0,375 00
"    "   "University Interest.............   29,581 00
"    '   "Repairs and Contingent..........  16,000 00
"' " " Books for Libraries.................  5,000 00
".."     IHomceopathic College and Hospital..  12,400 00
" " "          University  Hospital.................  5,000 00...      "    Dental College...................  8,000 00
"."      "    Assistant in Engineering Laboratory.  1,000 00.. Increase of Salaries, Law Dept.....     2,800 00
" " " Engineering Laboratory..........   10.000 00.. " t     Homoeopathic College, Law of 1875..  6,0(0 00
"        "." Removal of the Gifts of Mr. Rogers...  2,500 00
"  University Hospital, Sale of Material.................  1,028 37
Homceopathic    "    ".................    216 05
Dental College      "...................  3,490 99
Anatomical Material Sold............................  461 60
"   Interest on  Deposits..................................  994  08
"   M iscellaneous............................................  1,374  82
"   Students' Fees........................................  64,076  40-222,452  17




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


79


Disbursements.
Salaries of Officers, Professors and Employees............ $134,481 00
Vouchers for Current Expenses..........................             25,474 37
"      General Library............................           6,558 49
"     Repairs and Contingent.................    11,021 48
'   "  Physical Laboratory......................                91 42
"  Physiological.........................       16  93
"      Engineering.........................  14,032  93
"  University Hospital..........................          2,607' 86
"      Homoeopathic College...:.....................            610 30
"      Homoeopathic College and Hospital...........            2,576 65
"  Dental College.................    1,330 02
"  Removal of the Gifts of Mr. Rogers...........           4,477 01
"   Clock for University.....................     2,000 00-205,278 46
Balance in Treasury September 30th, 1886........                     17,173 71
$222,452 17
Classification.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
From State Treasurer, acct. 1-20 Mill Tax...................$       30,375 00
"      "      "      "    Interest........................      29,581 00-  59,956 00
"  First National Bank of Ann Arbor, Interest.........           994 08
"University Hospital, Sale of Material..................          1,028 37
Homeopathic               "..................      216 05
"  Dental College          "           i..................     3,490 99
"  Anatomical Material sold to Medical Schools......               461 60
Miscellaneous Sources..............................             1,374 82 $  7,565 91
' Students Fees, acct. Medicine and Surgery...........           12,475 00
"  "      "  " Literary......................  13,585 00
"    Law...........................  13,085  00... "          "    Dental College..................       3,910 00... "  "  '   M echanical.......................       212  00
" "  ".      Physiology....................       36 00
"  "      "   Pharmacy.....................           1,985 00
t" "           "      t"  Homceopathic College...........         2,365 00
"  "  "       General Chemistry.............           246 00
i' " " "           Practical Anatomy...............        3,540 00....        "   Microscopical....................         267 00
"  ';    "     "   H  istological......................      640  00
"  "'    " " A. and A. Chemistry.............              7,950 40.. ". "  Diplomas........................   3,750 00
" " " "            ~Zoology........................           30 00-  64,076 40
Totalfees......................................      $  64,076 40
Less returned fees..............................         2,347 7'3
N et........................................  $   61,728  67
131,598 31
Balance overdrawn September 30th, 1886.........                       9,568 57
$ 141,166 88




80                      ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
Balance overdrawn October 1st, 1885..................... $              1,941 51
General Pay Roll.............................................           113,751 00
Contingent.............................................        184 50
Fuel  and  Lights..............................................      6,781  21
General Library..............................................      181  85
Medical...............................              39 85
Grounds...............................................        62  52
Postage................................................                199 05
Insurance                       2..............................................  77 25
Advertising and Printing......................................       606 46
Museum....................................................            204 04
Chemical Laboratory.........................    4,133 88
Botanical......................................       145  00
H istological     "....................................          378  64
Engineering       "................................         565 37
Microscopical"..............................         124 77
General Chemistry............................................               332 18
Civil Engineering........................................   187  96
Astronomical Observatory.................................        27 67
A natom  ical........................2........................,147  54
Physics......................................................              455 46
Physiology.................................................  92 19
Dental Material..............................................             2,200 81
Advertising Medical........................................     261 86
"      Law...........................................    241  39
"       Pharmacy......................................        125 90
Zoological.................................                      344 67
Calendar.....................................................  914 61
Chinese Exhibit.......................      1,460 01
Students' Fees Refunded..........                  2,347 73 -141,166 88
Special Funds.
HOMOEOPATHIC COLLEGE.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885.....................                 857 80
From   State Treasurer................................     6,000 00  $ 6,857 80
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries of Professors and Employees.......................               247 50
Vouchers for Current Expenses...............................     610 30
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886...................            6,000 00      6,857 80
HOMCEOPATHIC COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL.
RECEIPTS.
From State Treasurer.....................................                      12,400 00
DISBURSEMENTS,
Balance Homceopathic Hospital, overdrawn October 1st, 1885                 462 48
Salaries of Professors and Employees........................             7,982 50
Vouchers for Current Expenses............................     2,576 65
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886...................             1,378 37    12,400 00




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885..................... $
From    State  Treasurer......................................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries of Surgeon and Employees.........................
Vouchers for Current Expenses...................
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886.................
REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885..................
From    State  Treasurer......................................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Current Expenses..............................
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886...................
GENERAL LIBRARY.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885.....................
From    State  Treasurer.....................................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Current Expenses..............................
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886..................
PHYSIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885......................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Current Expenses.............................
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886.................
PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885.......................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Current Expenses.............................
DENTAL COLLEGE.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885........................
From State Treasurer.....................................
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries of Professors and Employees......................
Vouchers for Current Expenses.........................
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886...............


81


2,270 51
5.000 00
1,850 00
2,607 86
2,812 65


7,270 51
7,270 51


5,395 43
16,(100 00


21,395 43


11,021 48
10,3i3 95  21,395 43


4,861 76
5,000 00  9,861 76


6,558 49
3,303 27


9,861 76


211 36      211 36


16 93
194 43      211 36
91 42       91 42
91 42       91 42
4,064 95
8,000 00   12,064 95
6,850 00
$ 1,330 02
3,884 93   12,064 95




82                    ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886,
ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885......................       4,804 62
From State Treasurer.....................................         10,000 00   14,804 62
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Expenses..........................   14,032 93
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886....................        771 69   14,804 62
ASSISTANT IN ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
RECEIPTS.
From State Treasurer......................................         1,000 00    1,000 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salary  of Assistant.........................................   1.000  00   1,000  00
INCREASE OF SALARIES OF LAW PROFESSORS.
RECEIPTS.
From State Treasurer.....................................          2,800 00    2,800 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
Salaries of Professors.......................................   2,800 00    2,800 00
UNIVERSITY CLOCK.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury, October 1st, 1885......................       2,000 00    2,000 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Expenses...............................    2,000 00    2,000 00
REMOVAL OF THE GIFTS OF MR. ROGERS.
RECEIPTS.
From State Treasurer.....................................      2,500 00
Balance overdrawn September 30th, 1886....................         1,977 01    4,477 01
DISBURSEMENTS.
Vouchers for Current Expenses..............................        4,477 01    4,477 01
Statement of Special Funds.
BALANCES IN TREASURY, SEPTEMBER 30TH, 1886.
Hom  ceopathic  College......................................    6,000  00
Homceopathic College and Hospital.........................         1,378 37
University  H ospital..........................................   2,812  65
Repairs and Contingent..................................          10,373 95
General Library..........................................    3,303  27
Physiological Laboratory.................................     194 43
Dental College..........................................            3,884 93
Engineering Laboratory...................................           771 69    28,719 29
Less Removal of the Gifts of Mr. Rogers, overdrawn........                      1,977 01
26,742 28
General Fund Account Overdrawn..........................     9,568 57
Balance in Treasury, September 30th, 1886.......                $  17,173 71




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


83


On motion of Regent Field the report of the Finance
Committee was accepted and adopted.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, permission was granted
Dr. H. L. Obetz to reside in Detroit, provided he continue to
discharge his whole duties as Professor of Surgery in the
Homceopathic Medical College here.
On motion of Regent Willett, Librarian Davis addressed
the Board, urging an increase of his salary.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Dr... B. Baker and
Dr. H. F. Lyster, members of the State Board of Health,
and Professor Vaughan addressed the Board on the desirability of establishing a Laboratory of Hygiene in the University; Professor Sewall on the need of a Physiological
Laboratory, and Professor Carhart on the need of a Physical
Laboratory; also Professor Winchell presented the needs
of the department of General Geology.
On motion of Regent Blair the Board went into executive session, after which the Board adjourned to to-morrow
morning at nine o'clock.
MORNING         SESSION,
The Board assembled at nine o'clock A. M.
Regent Whitman having arrived, the absent members
were, Regents Shearer and Joy.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Clark presented the request of Dr. Prescott for a
small appropriation for the purchase of books for use in the
Chemical Laboratory.  This request was referred to the
Library Committee of the Faculty.
Regent Clark presented and read the following communi



84


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


cation from Dr. A. B. Prescott, Dean of the School of Phar
macy.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN,           I
December 6th, 1886. 
President Angell:
DEAR SIR,-Within a few weeks the University has received
specially prepared collections of products and materials, to illustrate the course of manufacture in several extensive chemical industries in this country. It seems proper, therefore, that the Board
of Regents should acknowledge, with thanks, the contributions of
the following named manufacturers:
The Pennsylvania Salt Manufacturing Company, Natrona,
Pa., raw materials, and products, finished and unfinished, from
their alkali and acid works.
The Solvay Process Company, Syracuse, New York, articles
showing the operations of alkali manufacture by the "ammonia
method."
The Chemical Wood Treatment Company, Brooklyn, N. Y.,
articles giving instruction as to WAood Distillation and its products,
carefully prepared.
Messrs Marx & Rawolle, 163 William St., New York, illustrations of the production of Glycerine, in Holland, France, and
the United States.
Messrs. Theo. Metcalf & Co., Boston, Mass., samples of Lanolin, and materials.
It should be said that the specimens presented, for the most
part, do not consist of articles of commerce, but were chosen to represent the steps of manufacture, in the Museum of Applied Chem
istry.
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
Regent Clark submitted the following resolutions which
were adopted unanimously.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the
State of Michigan be returned to the Knowles Steam Pump Co., of
Boston, Mass., for a Steam Pump No. 000, presented to the University of Michigan.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents of the




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


85


State of Michigan be, and are hereby extended to the Penn. Salt
Manufacturing Company of Natrona, Pa., for raw materials,
and products, finished and unfinished, from their Alkali and Acid
Works.
Also to the Solvay Process Company, Syracuse, New York,
for articles showing the operations of alkali manufacture by the
"ammonia method."
Also to the Chemical Wood Treatment Company, Brooklyn,
N. Y., for articles giving instruction as to Wood Distillation and
its products, carefully prepared.
Also to Messrs Marx & Rawolie, 163 William St., N. Y., for
illustrations of the production of Glycerine in Holland, France
and the United States.
Also to Messrs Theo. Metcalf & Co., Boston, Mass., for samples of Lanolin and materials.
Regent Blair presented and read the following report of
the Law Committee:
The Committee on the Law Department to which were referred the recommendations of the Law Faculty, on the subject of
lectures to be delivered by Professors of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, report that they have had the same under consideration and see no objection to granting all the requests contained in the paper referred to and recommend the adoption of
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the recommendations of the Law Faculty submitted to the Board of Regents at the present meeting are hereby
approved, and Thomas C. Trueblood be, and he is hereby appointed teacher in elocution in the Law Department for the year 1886 -1887 for a period of ten weeks at a compensation of $325 as recommended; that Edward S. Dunster, M. D., be appointed lecturer
on Medical Jurisprudence in the Law Department; Victor C.
Vaughan, M. D., lecturer on Toxicology in the Law Department;
and Chas. H. Stowell, M. D., lecturer on Legal Microscopy in the
Law Department, and that Henry Wade Rogers be appointed
lecturer in the Medical Department upon such topics as may be
desired by that Department; and that these services are to be
rendered without additional salary or compensation as it is understood to have been arranged between the two Faculties.
The report and resolutions of the Law Committee were
adopted by the following vote:




86


ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett, Field and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
By permission, Professor Carhart presented plans for the
proposed new Physical Laboratory Building.
On motion of Regent Clark, Elmer G. Willyoung was
appointed Assistant in the Physical Laboratory at a salary of
$200.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board went into
Executive Session. At the expiration of the Executive Sestion the Board adjourned to 1:30 P.,M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 1:30 P. M.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That in view of the condition of Professor Sewall's
health, and the importance of securing to him the services of an
experienced Assistant, H. K. Lum, MI. D., be appointed Assistant to the Chair of Physiology, for the present college year at a
salary of $400.00.
The resolution of Regent Grosvenor was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett, Field and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the salary of Librarian R.
C. Davis was increased from  $1,500 to $2,000 per year, by
the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett, Field and
Whitman.
Nays-None.
The question of advancing John M. Schaeberle from Assistant, to Instructor in the Observatory, was presented by




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1886.


87


Regent Willett. After some discussion the matter was laid
on the table.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the title of Acting Professor V. M. Spalding was made    "Professor."  Regent
Field moved that the salary of Professor Spalding be $1,800.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Clark and Field.
Nays-Regents Grosvenor, Willett, and Whitman.
Regent Grosvenor presented and read a communication
from the Homoeopathic Medical Faculty asking for a readjustment of salaries in that Department. After discussion
the matter was laid on.the table.
On motion of Regent Field the salary of Assistant Librarian J. H. Vance was increased from $400 to $600, by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-Regents Grosvenor and Willett.
On motion of Regent Field the Executive Committee and
the Law Committee, jointly, were authorized to employ some
competent person to give a course of ten lectures on " Admiralty Law," in the Law Department, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the request of Prof.
Cady for an increase of salary was referred to the Literary
Committee.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Auditing Board were
authorized to purchase a Cosmosphere for the use of the
astronomical department, at a cost not exceeding $35.
On motion of Regent Field, the recommendations contained in the President's Report were referred to appropriate
committees of the Board.
On motion the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
1887.
UNIVERSITY OF M1ICHIGAN,               )
ANN AIROR, March 22d, 1887.     5
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock r:. Mi.
Present:-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and
Whitman.
Absent:-Regents Shearer, Draper and Willett.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved.
Sundry papers which had reached the President were referred to appropriate committees for consideration.
The Executive Committee of the Board made the following report:
UNIVEIRSITY (F MICHIGIAN, 
ANN Ai;ROI, March 22d, 1887.!
IThe Executive Committee beg leave to report:
On Dec. 21st, they gave leave of absence for the rest of the
academic year, to Professor T. M. Cooley, and appointed William
P. Wells, Lecturer on American History and Constitutional Law
for the remainder of thie academic year at the salary of $2,200 a
year.
The death of iProfessor ()lney havinlg rendered it necessary to
procure immediate assistance in the Malthematical Department,
the Committee on January 19th, 1887, appointed J, M. Schaeberle,




90


MARCH MEETING, 1SS7.


who was Assistant ill Astronomy, Instructor in Mathematics and
Astronomy for the remainder of the year at the salary of 81.00 a
year.
I.espectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANG(-ELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
E. 0. GR1OSYENOR.
CHAS.. WI. WHITMAN.
On motion of Regent Field, the report of the Executive
Committee was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents (Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and W      ihitman.
Nays —None.
The Executive Committee made the following report of
their investigation of certain charges of mismanagement in
the University Hospital, which was on motion adopted.
UTNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.                           I
ANN. ARm3on, Mich., March 22, 1887.        i
The Executive Commiittee beg leave to report as follows:
They met at the University on Feb. 14th, to consider the subject
submitted in the following paper. (Present, the President and
Regents Blair and Grosvenor.)
ANN ARBOR., Mich, Feb I th, 1887.
President James B. Angell:
DEAR SIR:-I am instructed to inform you of the action taken at tihe mteetiln
of the Faculty last evening, Thursday, Feb. 10, in regard to the affairs of the Hospital.
WHEREAS; Accusations of a serious character have been made to variolus
persons in tie community, and have reached the public, of gross mismnanag'nement
in the University Hospital, and on the other hand, charges of outrag(ous impropriety on the part of a subordinate in the Hospital, viz.:
C(harges of having excited patients to complain of their treatment, and of inducing them to make disparaging, exaggerated and false statements, and aiding
them in going out of the Hospital to make such statements. Therefore
Resolved, Thatj the Board of Regents, -or their Executive Committee, be requested to institute as soon as may be a thorough investigation into the facts of the
case, and take such action as justice and the circumstances require.
Yours very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL, MI. I).
Secretary.
Department of Medicine and Surgery.
They listened to statements from       members of the Hospital
Committee of the     'aculty, and from   nmembers of the lHospital
Staff, and others, and considered sundry communications placed!
before them, and finally adopted the following finding.




MARCH MEETING, 1887.


91


"Certain complaints concerning the management of the University Hospital having been brought to the attention of the Executive Committee, they assembled at the Hospital, and listened to
statements by Dr. Palmer and Dr. Frothingham of the Hospital
Committee of the Faculty, Dr. Chadbourne, House Surgeon, Dr.
Patterson, Ward Master, Ida R. Brigham, M. D., Ward Mistress,
Mrs. -losebrough, Matron, Miss Stoddlarc, M. D., Nurse, Miss
Cutler, Nurse, also to statements of Rev. Dr. Haskell, Miss Brown.
Mrs. Sunderland, and Mrs. Jaycox, residents of Ann Arbor, and to
numerous letters and communications from patients, presented
through the above named persons or otherwise.
After carefully considering all the statements and papers,
tlis committee have come to the conclusion that while there have
been some cases of negligence in the preparation and in the serving of food, tlTere has been no such neglect or mismanagement as
calls for the action of the Board of Regents, but whatever improvements are needed can, they believe, be secured by the exercise of proper supervision on the part of the IHospital Committee,
andl they commend the matter to the careful and continued attention of that Committee."
The Commnittee also accepted the resignation of Miss Brigllam aIs Ward Mistress. They authorized the Auditing Boarc to
supply such additional assistance in the Hospital as was rendered
necessary by the resignation of Miss Brigham.
Rlespectfully submtitted,
JAMES B. AN GELL,
AUSTI, S  N BLAIR,,
E. O. (O:1I()SYENR.
The President stated that the sum of $500, had been realized from the sale of certain lands in the State of Ohio, bequeathed to the University by the late Mary J. Porter, and
asked the Board to indicate what disposition they desired
should be made of the money.   On motion of Regent Grosvernor it was ordered that the money be placed in the Generctl Fund.
On motion of Regent Grosvernor, the name of Regent
Draper was substituted for Regent Joy's in the Standing
Committees of the Board,




92


MARCH MEETING, 1887.


On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the question of asking
the State to refund to the University certain taxes paid on
lots in Springwells, was referred to the Committee on the
Law Department for consideration.
The following communication was received from        the
Secretary of the University Senate.
Communication from the University Senate relative to the
Semi-Centennial Celebration:
Marhli 22, 1887.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The University Senate begs leave to present a preliminary report of progress made (under resolution of your Board, adopted in
March 1886, Proceedings, page 13) in arranging details of the semicentennial celebration to be held next June, and to submlit certain
reconimendations for your consideration.
The Senate has had the umatter under discussion at several
meetings, has appointed committees and sub-committees, and has
had a circular of information printed and sent to all, or nearly all,
the newspapers published in this State, and to a considerable number of papers of large circulation in other parts of the country. A
copy of this circular, together with a letter from the Secretary of
the Committee of arrangements prepared to accompany the circular, is herewith appended.
UNIVTERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
SEAMI-CENT  NIAL CELEBRA\TION, 
March 1, 1887.
CIRCULAR    }
No. 1.   )
In connection with the exercises of Commencement Week,
June 25-30, 1887, the University of Michigan will celebrate tlhe
fiftieth anniversary of its organization. The programme of the
proposed celebration, so far as it can be made known at the present
time, is as follows:
SUNDAY, JUNE 26: An address by Professor Henry S. Frieze,
LL. D., upon "The Relation of State Universities to Religion.',
(This address will take the place of the usual baccalaureate sermon.)
MONDAY and TUESDAY, JUNE 27 and 28: Class-Day exercises in the various departments.




MaARCH MEETING, l(d').,                 93
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, forenoon: An address by H-on.
Austin Blair, on behalf of the Board of Regents; also an address
by Professor J. M. B. Sill, Principal of the State Normal School,
on behalf of the State Teachers' Association.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, afternoon: Addresses before the various Societies of Alumni as follows:
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts, by Hon.
Thomas W. Palmer, United States Senator from Michigan.
Department of Law, by Hon. Samuel F. Miller, Justice of the
United States Supreme Court.
Department of Medicine and Surgery, by Dr. WV. H. Daly, of
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Homceopathic Medical College, by Dr. John W. Coolidge of
Scranton, Pa.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29, evening: Mendelssohn's Oratorio of
Elijah given by the University Musical Society.
'rHURSDAY, JUNE 30, forenoon: Exercises of the forty-third
annual Commencement. The Commemoration Address will be
given by President Angell. Addresses from representatives of
other universities and colleges are expected, either in connection
with the Commencement exercises or else at the banquet to follow.
THURSDAY, JUNE 30, evening: Conmmn      enceent Banquet.
The University desires to obtain the address of all its former
students. Address J. H. Wade, Ann Arbor, Mich.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, MIICH., March 1, 1887.;
To  the  Editor of the..............................................
SIR:-At Commencement time in 1887 the University of Michigan will celebrate the Semi-Centennial Anniversary of its organization and desires to welcome back upon that occasion as many as
possible of its former students who are scattered over the country
to the number of ten or eleven thousand. The programme of the
proposed festival, so far as it is known at the present time, is indicated in the accompanying circular, to which your attention is respectfully invited. You would confer a favor upon the University
and doubtless also upon many of your readers, if, in connection
with any reference you may choose to make in your journal to the
approaching jubilee, you were to say that any former student of




94


MARCH MEETING, 18i7.


the University who desires to receive circulars of information
relative to the Semi-Centennial Celebration, should send his address at once to J. H. Wade, Ann Arbor, Mich.
For the General Committee of Arrangements,
CALVIN THOMAS, Secretary.
Considerable progress has been made in determining the
character of the programme for the celebration, but provision will
have to be made for the expenses, that will necessarily be incurred,
before final action can be taken, or any more definite statement
published for the information of the alumni and the general
public.
The sub-committee on music in their report of progress, which
report has received the approval of the Senate, ask for an appropriation of five hundred dollars from your Board as a guaranty
fund to cover any deficit that may occur. The full text of this report is as follows:
REPORT OF MiT SIC (COMMITTEE.
They recommend,
(1.) That the concert-the Oratorio of Elijah-be given
Wednesday evening of Commencement Week.
(2.) That the programme be given by the Choral Society, the
Amphion Club, and the Glee Club.
(3.) That an orchestra of the size of the one employed last
year be secured for the concert.
(4.) That an appropriation of five hundred dollars be asked
for from the Board of Regents to cover such deficit as may arise.
(5.) That tickets for the concert be sold at fifty cents each.
(6.) That the same orchestra, employed for the concert, be
employed for the Commencement Exercises, Thursday morning.
BANQUET.
The sub-committee on banquet have reported plans and suggestions, which have received the approval of the Senate. The
special features of these plans are indicated in the following summary, which is respectfully commended to the consideration of
your Board.
It is recommended,
(1.) That the banquet be served at the usual hour on Commencement Day in the Chapel, with provision for any excess of




MARCH MEETING, 1887.


95


numbers in a tent to be spread in the angle between the central
building and the north wing.
(2.) That admission to the banquet be by ticket only.
(3.) That after setting aside a sufficient number of tickets for
invited guests, the remainder be held for sale, one ticket only to
each purchaser.
(4.) That the privilege of purchasing tickets prior to Commencement Day be restricted to graduates and former students of
the University; but that graduates of 1887 have the privilege of
purchasing tickets, provided any remain unsold in the hands of
the committee, at the close of the Commencement Exercises.
In the opinion of the Senate, the price charged for tickets
should be at least one dollar each, but the determination of this
question they wish to leave in the hands of your Board, in case the
propositions above submitted shall meet with your approval.
Very respectfully submitted,
WiN. II. PETTEE,
Secretary of the University Senate.
Also the following communication from Prof. Charles S.
Denison, Chairman of Sub-Committee on decoration:
U'NIVERSITY OF MICHIG-AN.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
G(ENELEMEN: —Having been placed at the head of the Committee on Decoration, which is a sub-committee of the General
Committee having in charge the matter of arranging for the approaching Semi-centennial Celebration of the University, I beg
leave to bring to your notice the necessity of providing a small appropriation —say fifty or one hundred dollars or more as the Board
may approve —to be expended for purposes of decoration at that
time.
I do not venture to advocate a large outlay in this direction
and would only say that the results attained must in every way be
commensurate with the appropriation.
Very respectfully yours,
CHARLES S. DENISON,
Chairman Sub. Corn. of Gen. Corn.
Ann Arbor, March 21st, 1887.




MARCH iVMEETING, iY';',


On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the foregoing corri
munications were referred to a special committee, consisting
of Regents Blair, Field and Whitman, and the Auditing
Board for consideration, with instructions to report at the
present meeting of the Board.
Regent Grosvernor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, 'That from and after October 1st, 1887, tie salary of
President James B. Angell shall be $5,000 per annum payable
quarterly, and that all emoluments now allowed to him shall be
continued.
The resolution of Regent Grosvenor was adopted by the
following vote.
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The request of a large number of the Professors asking
that the salaries be paid monthly instead of quarterly, was
referred to the Finance Committee for consideration.
The resignation of Dr. E. B. Patterson, Ward Master in
University Hospital, was received and accepted.
Regent Blair, Chairman of Special Committee on the
Semi-Centennial Celebration, submitted the following report
and resolution.
The Special Committee to whom was referred the communication of the Secretary of the Senate have had the same under consideration and respectfully report and recommend the adoption of
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the plans proposed in said communication be
and the same are hereby approved by this Board, and that an appropriation of five hundred dollars from the general fund is hereby
made as a guaranty fund to cover any deficiency that may arise as
recommended, and that the sum of seventy-five dollars be appropriated for purposes of decoration as recommended, and that the
price of dinner tickets be placed at one dollar per ticket.
A. BLAIR,
MOSES W. FIELD,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.




MARCH MEE'TINvG, 188'7.


97


Regent Grosvernor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of,150, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, be appropriated for the purpose of defraying the expenses of Professor Davis' Class in Civil Engineering', while engaged
in work in the field, the money to be expended under the direction
of the Auditing Board. The vote on this resolution resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents (Grosvernor, Blair, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Nays —None.
The following communication from Prof. J. W. Langley
was presented and read by Regent Clark.
TrNIVER\SITY OF MICHIcIAN, 
March 21st, 1887.
l-resident Jas. B. Angell:
DEAR SIR: —My assistant, Mr. Chas. K. McGee, is incapacitated for duty on account of sickness. He remained at work substantially during the whole of the tirst semester of this year. He
now desires from the Regents leave of absence for the second
semester of the present college year. I concur in his request and
recommend that it be granted.
Mr. McGee's absence leaves the Department of General Chemistry without an assistant, and compels much of the work which
he ordinarily performed to be omitted.  Another part of this
labor can, however, be done by a comparatively untrained man,
and I therefore recommend that Mr. F. F. Sharpless, an undergraduate, be appointed temporary assistant for the time extending
from March 15th, to June 30th, at a salary of $100,00 payable in
the quarter ending June 30th.
Respectfully yours,
JO()HN W. LANGLEY.
On motion of Regent Clark the recommendations contained in the communication of Prof. Langley were a'lopted
by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Field and AWhitman.
Nays-None.
The President presented the request of Prof. Charles lM.
Gayley, (now in Europe), asking that his leave of absence be




MARCH MEETING, 1887.


extended another year. On motion of Regent Whitman the
request of Prof. Gayley was granted.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the President was appointed a delegate from  this University to attend the (Centennial Celebration of Columbia College.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Board went into executive session. After remaining in Executive Session for some
time,.the business of the open session was resumed, and on
motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board adjourned to 9 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
MORNING         SESSION,
Wednesday, March 23, 188'.
The Board reassembled at 9 o'clock A. r.
Present:-Regents Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Draper and
Whitman.
Absent:-Regents Shearer. Willett and Field.
Regent Blair presented and read the following communications from Mrs. W.. W. Murphy and Librarian R. C. Davis.
YPSILANTI,        (
Jan. 20th, 1887. 
Hon. J. B. Angell, President of the Michigan University:
DEAR SIR:-My late Husband, William AW. Murphy, by his
last will made the following bequest to the University:
"I give and bequeath to the University of the State of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, all my old books and maps printed and published prior to the year eighteen hundred and forty, and I request
the Regents, if convenient, to keep the same in a separate book
case. Many of these books are old, rare and valuable."
In accordance with this, it has given me pleasure to select and
deliver to the Librarian of the University the books covered by the
bequest.
With great respect, I remain very truly yours,
ELLEN B. MURPHY.




MARCH MEETING, lSU'7.


93.


ANN A s OR, Mich,      /
March 22, 1887. 
To President Angell:
I have the the honor of submitting the following statement
for your use at the meeting of the Board of Regents this evening.
The books bequeathed to the University by the late Hlon. W.
W. Murphy were delivered into my hands by Mrs. Murphy, in January. The collection consists of 154 volumes, eight pamphlets,
and fifty loose maps of various portions of the Western Continent,
without date, but evidently of the sixteenth century.
Many of the books are old and rare and only at long intervals
are found in catalogues of books for sale. There are also some fine
specimens of early printing. If in collecting, Mr. lMurphy had any
specialty it was chartography. There are about a dozen volumes
on this subject, including several volumes of old alid valuable
maps.
Very respectfully,
R. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
On motion of Regent Blair, the President was requested
to accept the bequest of the late Hon. W. W. Murphy, and to
express to Mrs. Murphy the cordial thanks of the Board for
the same.
The following communication from    Professor Hutchins
was read by Regent Blair.
ANN ARBOR,              [
March 22, 1887.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents, of the University of Mich.
(GENTLEMEN:- -- hereby resign my position as Jay Professor
of Law in the Law Department of the University, the resignation
to take effect Oct. 1st, 1887.
And I take this opportunity to express my appreciation of the
uniform kindness that 1 have always received at the hands of the
Board of Regents and of the Faculties and other Officers of the
Univeisity during the seven years of mv service here as a teacher.
I assure you that I belieue in the University of Michigan. I tender
my resignation with many feelings of regret; and only because of
an opening offered elsewhere that I think it best, under all the circumstances to accept.
With great respect, I am very sincerely yours,
H. B. HUTCHINS.




1(0


MAIRCH MEE TING, NI'7,


Regent Blair from   the Law Committee, submitted the
following resolution which was adopted.
Resolved, That the resignation of Prof. H. B. Hutchins, Jay Professor of Law, in the Law Department of the University is hereby
accepted, to take effect on the 1st day of October next, in accordance with his request, and the Board of Regents hereby tender the
thanks of the University of Michigan to Professor Hutchins for
his faithful and satisfactory service here.
The following resolution submitted by Regent Whitman,
was adopted by the Board unanimously.
Resolved, That the privileges of the University be extended to
John Randolph Rogers, son of the eminent sculptor Randolph
Rogers, as a testimonial of the estimation in which the generous
donor of the valued Rogers Collection is held by the Board of
Regents.
Regent Whitman presented and read the following communication from the Society of the Alumni of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-We have the honor, in obedience to the instructions of the Society of Alumni of the University of Michigan, to transmit herewith a copy of a resolution adopted by said
Society at its last meeting relative to the establishment of the Williams Professorship of the University of Michigan and respectfully ask your early consideration thereof.
M. H. GOODRICH,
Prest. pro tern.
V. M. SPALDING,
Secretary.
WH:EREAS, It is provided by the terms of the subscription
agreement to raise a fund for the endowment of a Professorship
in the University of Michigan to be known as the Williams Professorship, that the Interest, Income, and Profit, of the fund to be
raised should be paid to the occupant of the chair of said Professorship after Professor Williams death, and
WHEREAS, It seems desirable that a Professor who may have
reached the period and condition for service at which Dr. Williams had arrived when he received the proceeds and income of
this fund, should at the request of the Alumni or Board of Direc



MARCH MEETING, 1887.


101


tors be transferred from his own chair to the Williams Professorship, which should be an emeritus professorship, and should thereupon receive the income of the said fund or so much thereof as
the Society of Alumni should annually vote to him or the Board of
Directors should deem advisable, and should there be more than
one needing the benefit of this fund at the same time the professor
first transferred or appointed should hold the professorship and
the others in order, first, second, and third assistants, therefore
Resolved, That the Board of Directors of this Society be and
are hereby instructed to present to the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan, at the earliest practicable opportunity, a
request that they establish such Williams Professorship in the
University of Michligan at a time not later than March 1887, which
professorship shall be an limeitus Professorship and substantially
in conformity to the plan indicated in this resolution.
In compliance with the request of the Society of the
Alumni of the Literary Department, Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution which was adopted unanimously.
Resolved, That there be established in the Department of
Literature, Science and the Arts, of the University of Michigan, a
Professorship which shall be known and designated as the Williams Professorship, and which shall be an Emeritus Professorship; that the occupant of said chair of the said Williams Professorship be appointed only upon the nomination of
the Society of Alumni, or the Board of Directors thereof from
the professors in active service in the University and as provided
in the resolution adopted relative to said professorship at the
annual meeting of said Society of Alumni in June, 1886.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Secretary was instructed
to notify Dr. C. Rominger that the Board were unable to purchase his collection of fossils, now in the Museum
Regent Clark submitted the following resolution which
was unanimously adopted.
Resolved, That a vote of thanks of the Board of Regents be
and is hereby tendered co The Lansing Iron and Engine Works
for a set of cascings and forgings, presented to the [University
for an 8x12 Automatic Engine.
AllTH[ 11 M. ('LAR1K.
March 23d, 1887.




102


IMARCH MIEETING, 1887.


Regent Grosvenor presented and read the following
memorial from    the Faculty of the Homweopathic )Medical
College.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMAN: —The undersigned members of the Faculty of
the Homneopathic Medical College, respectfully ask your honorable body to enact the following resolutions for the government
of our college, and to define the relationship of this college with
the Department of Medicine and Shurgery.
The sections are Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, S, and 9, of the original
resolutions offered by Regent Iynd, at the organization of this
college and adopted by the Board. and read as follows:
Sec. 3. That all students entering such college shall record
their names with the Secretary of the University under the designation of students of the Homceopathic Medical College, of the
University, and shall be so registered in the Calendar: Shall pay
the same fees, and be subjected to the same regulations which
are now in force or which may be hereafter established for the
government of the Medical Department of the lUnivereity of
Michigan.
Sec. 4. Students entering the Hom(-opathic Medical College
shall receive instructions in the now existing Medical I)epartmenlt
in all branches not provided for by the chairs established above,
(including practical anatomy:) They shall be entitled to all the
priviletges accorded to studenlts il the Medical Department, and
shall conform to all requierements of said Medical Department so
far a- they apply to all branches in hl-ich such students shall
receive instruction in the now existing Department.
Sec. 5. Lectures shall as far as possible be given to such
students by the Homceopathie medical professors at and during
the same hours which may be occupied by professors holding corresponding chairs in the Medical Department of the University,
and at any other time which lmay be (letermined by such Homexopathic professors, provided always, that such students are not engaged in the legitimate performlance of duty in the now existing
Medical Department.
Sec. (6. The salme conditions shall be applied to their matriculatioll, tille of stld(l ald' grao(.ll:aticn a.s 110ow exist or 1lly
hereafter be tix(d ill tlie. lMedical LiDpaltllent of the Unlliversity:
and it shall be thle ditty of tile.Iresicdelt to satisfy himself that




MARCH.MEIETING, 1887.


103


such conditions are duly enforced in the Homoeopathic Medical
College and in the Medical Department.
Sec. 7. Every professor in the Medical Department of the
University, and also in the Homceopathic Medical College, shall
upon the completion of the required course of study. and upon
students giving the necessary evidence of professional scholarship,
furnish the President with official information to that effect; the
Deans of the respective Faculties shall report to the President who
shall present such reports to the Board of Regents.
Sec. 8. All students graduating from  the Homueopathic
Medical College shall be furnished with Diplomas so designated.
Sec. 9. From and after the present University Commencement, degrees shall be conferred as provided for by the Regents of
the University, but all Diplomas in every Department of the University shall be signed by the President and the Secretary and shall
have the corporate seal of the University attached.
We ask you to add the following sections:
Sec. 10. It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Department of Medicine and Surgery to furnish the President of the University with an official copy of the schedule of lectures to be observed at the opening of each year, and to notify him of any
changes made during the year. Said schedule shall always be sent
in time to give all students of the Holmneopathic College due notice
as to the time lectures begin and the order to be obselrCed.
Sec. 11. The Secretary of the Department of Mledicine and
Surgery, shall at the endcl of ea.ch semester, furnish an official copy
of the attendance record of the students to the President of the
University, together with such students quiz record on the various
courses of lectures attended in the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, and standilg in the examinations taken in said Departme.nt.
H. L. O()ETZ,
J.AMES C. WOOD,
D. A. McLACHLAN,
H. R. ARNDT.
Doctors Obetz, Wood and MeLachlan addressed the
Board in support of the Memorial, and Doctors Vaughn and
Frothingham in opposition. Pending the discussion, and on
motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Board adjourned to 1:'30
o'clock p. M.




104


MARCH MEETING, 1887.


AFTERNOON SESSION,
The Board reassembled at 1:30 \'. M.
The first business to come before the Board was the consideration of the Memorial of the Homoeopathic Faculty.
On motion of Regent Draper, the Board decided to dispence with the further discussion of the, subject, and adopted
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the series of resolutions adopted by the Board
on the 11th day of May 1875, for the government of the Homceopathic College, is now in force, except section seven (7), and that
the following stand as section seven (7) in said series.
Section seven (7). "Every Professor in the Medical Department of the University, and also in the Homceopathic Medical
College, shall, upon the completion of the requirec course of study,
and upon the student's giving the necessaiy evidence of professional scholarship furnish the President with official information
of such fact, and thereupon the President sliall communicate the
same to the Deans of the respective Faculties and to the lBard of
Regents."
(n motion of Regent Grosvenor, the request of Dr. W. J.
Herdman for an appropriation of $180 for the purchase of
three microscopes for use in Pathological Histology, was re
ferred to the Auditing Board, with power.
Regent Draper submitted the following resolution.
Resolved. That Thomas C. Trueblood be and lie is herebiy appointed Teacher of Elocution in the Law Department, during the
second semeste' of the next college year, at a salary of five hundred
dollars.
The resolution of Regent Draper was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes —l-egents Grosvenor. Blair, Clark, Draper and Whitman.
Nays Nollne.




MARCH MEETING, 1887.


105


Regent Clark presented the following communication:
To the Hon. Board of Regents:
The Greek and Latin Departments of the University respectfully petition for an appropriation of one hnndred and fifty dollars. They desire this amount for the purchase of magic lantern
views to illustrate lectures on Grecian and Roman History and
Archaeology. The money is asked for at this time that Prof. D'Ooge
may be able to purchase the views while in Greece and Rome.
HENRY S. FRIEZE,
ELIS t1A JONES,
A. H. 1PATTENGILL.
March 22, 1887.
On motion of Regent Clark, an appropriation of $150
was made for the purchase of Magic Lantern Views to illustrate lectures in the Classical Department, by the following
vote.
Ayes-Regents Grosvenor, Biair, Draper. Clrk and Whitman.
Nays ---None.
The following resolutions introduced by Regent Grosvenor, were adopted.
Resolved, That in view of the notice to the Board, of J. Austin
Scott and J. W. Knight desiring to be re'eased from their obligation upon a certain bond made by the First National Bank of Ann
Arbor to the Regents of the University and guaranteed by said
Scott and Knight, and others, it is expedient and proper that a new
bond be obtained from said Bank.
Resolved, That the Auditing Board be directed to obtain from
the First National Bank of Ann Arbor, a bond to secure the University of Michigan for its deposits. in the penal sum of fifty
thousand dollars, $50,000.00.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING,
SPECIAL MEETING.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,          a
ANN ARBOR, June 27th, 1887. 
The Board of Regents assembled in special session in
the room of the President at 2 o'clock P. m.
Present: The President, Regents Shearer, Grosvenor,
Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
The President submitted the following report of the Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows:
On May 3,1887, Edgar D. Smith was at his request released
from his post as Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory, where he
was serving at a salary of 8160 a year. The Committee added the
duties which had been discharged by Mr. Smith to those of Mr. E.
A. Ruddiman, another Assistant, and increased Mr. Ruddiman's
compensation by the sum of $80, the same sum which would have
been paid to Mr. Smith, had he remained.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
E. 0. GROSVENOIB.
The report of the Executive Committee was adopted by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Regent Grosvenor presented the following communication from Dr. 0. F. Ghadbourne.




108


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,         1
ANN ARBOR, June 17th, 1887.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
I hereby respectfully tender my resignation as Resident Physician and Surgeon at University Hospital, to take effect Oct. 1,
1887.
O. F. CHADBOURNE.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the resignation of Dr
0. F. Chadbourne was accepted.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of Medical Committee,
presented the report of the House Surgeon at University
Hospital, which was accepted and placed on file.
Regent Draper presented the following communication
from the Dean of the Law Department:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
The Faculty of Law respectfully report that the following
named persons in the Law Department have passed all the required
examinations, and they therefore recommend that the degree of
Bachelor of Laws be conferred upon them.
Respectfully, submitted for the Faculty.
HENRY WADE ROGERS, Dean.
Ann Arbor, June 27th, 1887,


Thomas Adams,
Cassius Alexander,
George Butler Andrewx,2
George Edgar Arbury,
Reuben Ensign Babcock,
Hiram. Hiubbard. Bacon, lJr.
Charles _Nathan Banks,
John David Barkalow,
John Grant Barnes,
William Alexander Bar-nes,
John D. Barry,
Richard Martello Bates,
Edward Davison. Black,
Franklin. Pierce Blackman,
George Morton. Bleecker,
Charles Blanchard Boyce,
James Walter Bralnnum,


James Leazure Loar,
Charles Albert Loomis,
Ubald. Loranger,
Austin Clark Loveland,
Albert Hurd Lowman,
Oscar Charles Lungershausen,
Charles Robert Mains,
George Culley Manlly,
Asa Edson Mattice,
James David May,
Rebecca Ilay,
William Culp McEldowney.
William Wilson MeN-air,
Charlie 'Warren Miller,
Elner Ellsworth Miller,
William Henry MohTrmlanr,
Florence C. Moriarty,




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


109


Elmer Ellsworth Brooks,
Edwin Newton Brown,
George Fawcett Brown,
John Brown,
Will Ellis Brown,
George Brinton McClellan Burd,
Wolcott Hackley Butler,
Clinton Lee Caldwell,
Daniel Fisher Campbell,
William Owens Campbell,
Charles Lunt Carter,
Howard Williamson Cavanagh,
William Clinton Chadwick,
Charles Sherwin Chase,
Fred I. Chichester,
William Alexander Clark,
John Quincy Cline,
Harry Godfrey Clock,
John Francis Connor,
Oliver James Cook,
Edwin A. Corbin,
John Clinton Coveney,
Edward Leverett Curtis,
Webster William Davis,
William David Davis,
Corinne Douglas,
Hamilton Douglas,
Frank Edward Duncan,
George Dysart,
Albert Danner Elliot,
Byron Ransom Erskine,
John Alaric Fairchild,
Lucius Matlack Fall,
Leonard Sumner Ferry,
Jay Elisha Gladding,
Joseph Montgomery Glasgow,
Oliver Anson Goss,
Louis Edward Gossman,
William Emory Gross,
Wilfred Rudesill Guy, Att'y,
Bayard Taylor Hainer, B. S.,
Grant Earl Halderman,


Tadao Nakamura,
Durbin Newton,
Edmund Cone Nordyke,
Francis Joseph O'Brien,
Ellsworth E. Otis,
James Beatty Owens,
Frank Sparrow Parker,
Thomas J. Peach,
Edwin Deppen Peifer,
Edward Fitch Pettis,
Jay Eugene Pickard,
Charles Sumner Pierce,
Frank Alvin Rasch,
Louis Oliver Rasch,
Charles Reed,
James Edgar Ricketts,
Charles Perry Roberts,
Absalom Rosenberger,
Frank Henry Rutter,
George Washington Saulsberry,
James Newton Saunders, Jr.,
Edward Jay Scofield,
John Vincent Sheehan,
Timothy Daniel Sheehan,
Samuel Ira Slade,
Francis Giles Shumway,
Charles Milton Smith,
Henry Isaac Smith,
Welcome Johnston Smith,
Frederick Waeir Stevens,
John Wesley Mayo Stewart,
Charles McClellan Strickler,
Elvin Swarthout,
Jacob Bowman Sweitzer,
Lyman Beecher Sullivan,
Harvey Tappan,
Orla Benedict Taylor,
Sidney Stockton Taylor,
Walter Augustus Thieme,
Albert Martin Thomas,
Isaac Samuel Thompson,
Carl Andrew Wagner,




110


JUNE YMEETING, 1887.


James Preston Hall,
James Grant Hays,
Samuel Franklin Henderson,
Charles Gilbert Hinds,
Oscar James Hood,
Clinton Woodbury Howard,
Joseph Henry Ingwersen,
William Jefferson Inman,
Kakutaro Itaya,
Fred William Job,
Adna Romulus Johnson,
Thomas D. Kearney,
Austin McCreary Keen,
Frank Herman Kennedy,
William Henry King,
Charles Willibald Kuhne,
Charles Carney Lee,


William Edward Walsh,
Thomas Henry Ward,
Francis Louis Weaver,
Frank Wells,
James Henry Wendorf,
Ernest Willard Whipple,
John Jefferson Whitacre,
Avery Claborn White,
Fred Patterson Whiteley,
Mary Collins Whiting,
William Tyre Whittington,
Levi Peet Wilcox,
Margaret Lyons Wilcox,
Lytle Wilkinson,
George Rodden Willard,
Otis Andrew Williams,
Charles Bramble Wilmot,


Emmet Daniel Wiltse.


On motion of Regent Draper it was voted that the Degree of Bachelor of Laws be conferred upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication in accordance with
the recommendation of the Law Faculty.
Regent Willett presented the following communication
from the Secretary of the Literary Faculty:
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-By direction of the Faculty of the Department
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, I have the honor to report that
the following named persons are recommended to your honorable
body for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


Elma Mary Blackman,
Antoinette Brown,
Leonidas Connell,
Maria Ruth Guppy,
George Matthews Hewey,


Dora Ella Kennedy,
Maria McDonald,
Myron Williams Mills,
Stafford T. Mitchell,
Edwin P. Trueblood.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MINING ENGINEERING).
John McIntyre Jaycox.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


111


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING).
Francis Joseph Baker,      John Denison lHibbard,
Joseph Halsted,            James Alfred Sinclair,
Kendal Woodward Hess,      Earl Porter Wetmore.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN CIVIL ENGINEERING).
Benjamin Butler Brown,     George Loughnane,
Seward Cramer,             John Cranch Moses,
Charles Young Dixon,       Fred Blackburn Pelham,
William Roy Hand,          George Ernest Rcehm,
George B. Hodge,           Benno Rohnert.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE (IN GENERAL SCIENCE).
Katherine Eloise Barnes,   Louis Parker Jocelyn,
Charles Potwin Beckwith,   Webster S. Ruckman,
Addie Deett Bird,          Elmer Sanford,
Arthur Graham Hall,        James Lincoln Skinner,
K. Gertrude Stevens.
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Wirt McGregor Austin,
Thomas Jack Ballinger,
Emma E. Beers,
Frank Forest Bumps,
Anna Louise Campbell,
George Peter Cary,
Celia Chamberlain,
David Emil Heineman,


Michael Edward McEnany,
Robert Webber Moore,
Robert Ezra Park,
Samuel Kemp Pittman,
Jesse Cornell Shattuck,
Francis Adelia Slaght,
George Edward Taylor,
John Charles Warmbier,


Francis James Woolley.
BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Ephraim Douglass Adams,
James Everett Ball,
Arthur Lincoln Benedict,
Adelaide May Bradford,
Robert Corwin Bryant,
Clarence Byrnes,
Martin Cavanaugh,
William Wallace Chalmers,
Fred Converse Clark,
Minnie Olive Florence Clark,
Isabella Cook,
Charles Horton Cooley,
Arthur John Covell,


Florence Bingham Kinne,
Clesson Selwyne Kinney,
Llewellyn Cary Lawrence,
Moritz Levi,
Helen Louisa Lovell,
Lawrence Amos McLouth,
Susie Suvina Mishler,
Thomas Frank Moran,
Alphonso Gerald Newcomer,
Claire Avery Orr,
Belle Purmort,
John Charles Ranacher,
Edmund Jeremiah Shaw,




112


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


George Ellsworth Dawson,
Elizabeth Sargent Gastman,
Charles Edwards Grove,
William Henry Hawkes,
Satia Jewett Hyde,
Violet Delille Jayne,
Frederica Florence Jones,
|auy Lincoln Kiefer,


Frederick David Sherman,
Mark Roger Sherman,
Walter Teis Smith,
Jerome Beers Thomas, Jr.,
Franklin Luppen Velde,
William Henry Walker,
James A. Wardlow,
Frank Enos Welch.


MASTER OF SCIENCE.
Shigehide Arakawa, B. Agr.,  Frederick George Novy.
MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.
Elvin Swarthout.
MASTER OF ARTS.
Estelle Louis Guppy,        George Culley Manly,
George Francis James,        Hannah Robie Sewall,
Margaret Stewart.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Webster Cook,               John Foster Eastwood.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the degrees as indicated in the communication
just read, be conferred upon the persons named, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts,
The following communication from the Dean of the
Dental College was presented by Regent Grosvenor.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, 
June 27, 1887.
The Honorable Board of Regents University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-The following named persons having passed a
satisfactory examination, and completed the required course of
study and work in the College of Dental Surgery, are hereby recommended for the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery.


Respectfully submitted,
Ernest Lee Avery,
Frank Corington Babcock,
Gilbert Eli Corbin, M. D.,


J. TAFT, Dean.
John Thomas Martin,
Lewis Henry McDonald,
George Hart Miner,




JUNE' MlEETING, 188'7


Edward Lincoln Dillman,     Joseph Lawrence Nordikel
Almon Dewhirst,             Edward Everett Paxson,
Elmer Llewellyn Drake,      William Arthur Powers,
Fred William Gordon,        William Daniel Saunders,
Almer Myron Harrison,       Frank Leslie Small,
David Alexander Harroun,    Eva Claire Smith,
Harry Duncan Heller,       Clarence John:Burr Stephens
James Bailey Hoar,          James C. Stevens,
Fred Adolph Kotts,          Patrick James Sullivan,
Cyreno Nathaniel Leonard,   Charles Henry Worboys,
William Adelbert Wright.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor it was voted that the
degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery be conferred upon the
persons named in the foregoing communication.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman df the Finance Committee,
presented the bond of the First National Bank of Ann Arbor,
to secure the deposit of the University funds in said Bank,
which on motion was accepted, approved, and placed in the
hands of the President for safe keeping.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution
which was adopted unanimously.
Resolved, That the thanks of the Regents be presented to the
donors of valuable gifts as follows:
1. To the Hon. James McMillan for a marble bust of himself, presented at the request of the President.
2. To Mr. A. 0. Revenaugh for a large portrait of the late
Professor Williams, painted by Mr. Revenaugh, the donor.
3. To Mr. Henry Phillips, for a collection of valuable prehistoric flint implements from Denmark.
4. To members of the Junior and Freshman classes of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery and to members of the Dental classes for a large portrait of Professor Ford, presented by
them.
5. To the graduating class of the Literary Department for a
portrait of the late Professor Olney.
On motion of Regent Draper, all Professors who have
given instruction to the present graduating class in the Law
Department, were authorized to sign the diplomas.




114


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


Regent Grosvenor presented the following resolution of
the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Resolved, That this Faculty request a conference with the
Board of Regents to consider the question of supplying rooms for
giving instruction in Physiology, Sanitary Science, Pathological
Anatomy and Histology; and that the Secretary be requested to
ascertain when such a conference can be had, and that he notify
the members of this Faculty accordingly.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Medical Faculty
were notified that the Board would hear them on the subject
matter of the foregoing resolution, to-morrow morning at
8:30 o'clock.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication from the Dean of
the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 27th, 1887. 
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-The following persons having complied with
all the requirements of the College of Medicine and Surgery are
hereby, by a vote of the Faculty, recommended for the degree of
Doctor of Medicine.


John Frederick Abbott,
Justina Southgate Anderson,
Oliver Elmer Ellsworth Arndt,
William Tisdale Atkinson,
Leonard Chester Backus,
James Kleckner Bartholomew
Roxie Ellen Bates,
Arthur Bennett,
Edward Samuel Blair, A. B.,
Allegheny College.
Josephine Dorr Blake, A. B.,
Vassar College.
Henry Boss,
Augusta Mulford Brewer,
Lyman Augustus Brewer,


A. B. PALMER, Dean.
Charles John Hood,
Benjamin Franklin Horner,
Gotthelf Charles Huber,
Philo Hull,
Gilbert Bastedo Johnston,
William Murray Johnston,
Frank Miner Kerry, B. S.,
Hillsdale College.
June kichi Kimura,
George Washington Lacea, B. L.,
Otto Landmann, Ph. B.,
Ella Marx,
George McIntyre,
Jennette Matilda McLaren,




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


115


Arthur H. Brownell, A. B.,
Hamilton College.
William Edward Buschman,
Mary Elizabeth Clark, B. L.,
Miles Hartson Clark, A. B.,
Williams College.
Frank Smith Coller,
William J. Coppernoll,
Walter Armstrong Cowie,
Lancelot B. Dawson,
John Webb Decker,
Homer George Emery,
Elizabeth Martha Farrand,
Ashbel Howard Fassett,
Charles Mark Freeman,
Louis Albert Fritsche,
John Clark Gauntlett,
Edward Branford Gibson,
Leon Mitchel Gillette,
Mary Edna Goble,
George Gundlach,
Addie Emma Gurd,
George Clinton Hafford,
George Andrew Hare,
Jessie Daniells Hare,
Leonard Francis Hatch,
Kate Annabelle Hathaway,
Grant Sumner Hicks,
Homer Dwight Hodge,


David Decker McNaughton,
Burton Albion Meacham,
George Leonard Meyer,
Wilmot Fred Miller,
Frank Daniel Myers,
Otto Negelspach,
Henry Palmer, Ph. C.,
Thomas Charles Phillips, B. S.,
Edward Joseph Price,
John Abbott Price,
Eugene V. Riker, A. B.,
*Alpheus Worley Ringer,
Edward Alexander Runyan,
Albert Franklin Schafer,
Minnie Elizabeth Sinclair,
Peter Franklin Smith,
William Hoffman Stauffer,
Frederick Charles Thompson,
Edward R. Wagner, A. M.,
Michael Eugene Whalen,
Almond Henry Wicks,
Esther Gilbert Willoughby,
William Henry Winslow,
Thomas Michael Winters,
Frank Paine Witter,
Nellie Ida Woodworth,
Charles D'Abbs Wright,


Wilbur Clarence Wright.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, it was voted that the
degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with
the recommendation of the Faculty.
Regent Clark presented the following communication
from  Charles K. Adams, President of Cornell University,
which was ordered spread on the minutes.


*Deceased.




116


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


PRESIDENT'S ROOMS, CORNELL UNIVERSITY, 
ITHACA, N. Y., May 4th, 1887.
To the Honorable the Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-Soon after the organization of the School of
Political Science in the University of Michigan, some five years
ago, I received from a personal friend, who was at the same time
an ardent friend of the University, a considerable sum of money,
amounting in all to $4,350, for the purchase of books in the department of History and Political Science.   Accompanying the gift
were two easy conditions, first, that I should purchase with the
money such books as I needed in the department without asking
the advice of any one, and, secondly, that I should not reveal to
any one except the President and the Librarian the name of the
giver. These conditions were complied with. Not long since I
received a letter from my friend of which the following is an extract:
"Some time ago I received your letter with the package of invoices and
vouchers of the books you bought with the money I gave you for the School of Political Science. I have looked over the list. They are a noble lot, and I am very
glad to believe that the money will do as much good as any equal amount I ever expended. I don't know whether the Regents of the University know who Mr. 'X.' is
or not; I see no reason why the matter should now be a secret. I care nothing
about it now one way or the other."
The injunction of secrecy having thus been removed, I take
pleasure in informing your honorable body that the benefactor of
the University was James J. Hagerman, Esq., of the class of '61,
now at Colorado Springs, Col.
Hoping that the books so generously contributed will long
continue to instruct and inspire students of History and Political
Science, and wishing for the University in all of its Departments
the prosperity it so richly deserves, I am
Your obedient servant,
C. K. ADAMS.
Regent Willett submitted       the  following   resolution,
which was adopted unanimously.
WHEREAS, The injunction of secrecy as to the donor of a considerable proportion of the books, purchased for the Department of
History and Political Science, has been removed, as appears from
the letter of President Adams;
Therefore, Resolved, That the thanks of this board be and are
hereby tendered to the liberal donor, James J. Hagerman, Esq., of
Colorado Springs, Col.




JUNE MEETING, 188'7.


117


On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board went into Executive Session, after some time the business of the open
session was resumed. And on motion of Regent Draper the
Board adjourned to 7:30 o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board of Regents reassembled in the room of the
President at 7:30 P. M. Full Board present.
The following communication from the Dean of the
Homeopathic Medical College, was presented by Regent
Grosvenor.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, 1
June 27th, 1887. 
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-The following persons having complied with
all the requirements of the Homceopathic Medical College for
graduation, are recommended for the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
H. L. OBETZ, Dean.
George Lake Bailey,         Samuel Geo. Milner, A. M.,
Olivia Artemisia Baldwin,   Eliza Louise Orleman,
John Stuart Campbell,       Earl Fuller Shaw,
Geo. Willard Kishpaugh,     Melancthon B. Snyder, A. B.,
Matilda Jamison Lyons,      Sue McGlaughlin Snyder,
Arabella Merrill,           Rodney Chester Taylor,
Zilpha Rosannah Wheelock.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, it was voted that the
degree of Doctor of Medicine be conferred upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with
the recommendation of the Homceopathic Faculty.
The President presented a communication from Prof.
Winchell, relating to the purchase of the Rominger Collection. Referred to the Committee on Museum.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the sum of $600, or so much thereof as may be
necessary, be appropriated for the purpose of publishing the SemiCentennial Commemorative Volume, and that the money be expended under the direction of the Auditing Board.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


The resolution of Regent Willett was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Regent Whitman was appointed to the place of Regent Draper on the Standing Committee on Chemical and Pharmaceutical Department.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Board went into Executive Session. After remaining in Executive Session some
time, the business of the open session was resumed.
Regent Whitman moved that Professor Henry C. Adams
be elected Professor of Political Economy and Finance, at
the salary of $2,200 a year, beginning Oct. 1st, next. The
motion was carried by the following vote.
Ayes - Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, A. C. McLaughlin was
appointed Instructor in History for one year at a salary of
$900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Walter Miller was appointed Instructor in Latin for one year, salary $900, by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, Associate Professor W. W.
Beman was promoted to the Chair of Mathematics, with the
title of Professor, and salary of $2,200, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


119


On motion of Regent Whitman, S. W. Clary was appointed Instructor in Modern Languages for one year, salary
$900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and WJhitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Arthur W. Burnett was
appointed Instructor in English for one year, at a salary of
$900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Professor J. B. Steere asked for, and obtained leave of
absence for one year, his salary to lapse during his absence.
Regent Blair moved that the sum of sixty dollars ($60.)
be appropriated for the purpose of defraying the expenses of
Justice Miller, of the United States Supreme Court, who delivered the address to the Graduating Law Class.
The motion of Regent Blair was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
On motion of Regent Shearer, the salary of R. F. Sanford was made $1,200 per year, from July 1st, 1887, by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the salary of Acting Professor Cady be $1,600. Regent Grosvenor moved to amend
by making it $1,200. The amendment of Regent Grosvenor
was carried, and the vote on the original motion as amended
resulted as follows:




120


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett and Field.
Nays-Regent Whitman.
On motion the Board adjourned to 8:30 to-morrow morning for its regular annual meeting.
ANNUAL MEETING.
MORNING         SESSION.
TUESDAY, June 28th, 1887.
The Board assembled for its annual meeting in the room
of the President at 8:30 o'clock. Full Board present.
A conference with the Medical Faculty having been
made the special order for this hour, the Board listened to
Professors Herdman, Vaughan, Sewall, and Stowell, and
also to Professor Carhart on the need of more room for the
various Laboratories in which they were interested. On motion of Regent Willett the whole matter was referred to the
Medical Committee.
Doctor Palmer, Dean of the Medical Faculty, presented
and read his annual report to the Board.
Doctor Maclean suggested to the Board the expediency
of appropriating $50 to purchase an illustrated report of the
clinical work done by the Professor of Surgery during the
past year. On motion the matter was referred to the Medical Committee.
By permission Professor Langley addressed the Board on
the subject of the ventilation of the Medical Building. On
motion of Regent Grosvenor, Professor Langley was requested to reduce his remarks to writing, and the subject was referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


121


On motion the Board adjourned to 2:30 o'clock P. M.
AFfERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:30 P. M.
On motion of Regent Field, Dr. Maclean addressed the
Board on the needs of the Medical Department.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Auditing Board
was authorized to purchase new instruments for the use of
the Professor of Surgery at a cost not exceeding $300.
Regent Draper submitted the following resolution which
was adopted.
Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the
President, to investigate and make report as to the clinical requirements of the Medical Department.
The President appointed Regents Draper, Blair and
Grosvenor as such committee.
Regent Whitman presented the following communication
from the Dean of the School of Pharmacy:
UNIVERSITY OF M[CHIG AN,
CHEMICAL LABORATORY,
Ann Arbor, June 28th, 1887.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-I respectfully request the purchase of the following named articles for the use of the students of the chemical
laboratory. said students being now uniformly required to pay
fees proportional to the expense of the laboratory material they
use:
1 Zeiss's Bacteria Microscope, with Abbe's illuminating apparatus. Objectives A & D with 1-12 oil immersion. Eye pieces 2,
4, 5, magnifying from 50 to 1265 diam. Seybold, 1319,$170.00.
1 Zeiss Microscope. Stand IV., No. 6, Objectives A., D., Eye
pieces 2. 4, $70.00.
3 dozen 1-5 Objectives, Society Screw, ($11.50 each), $414.00.
3 Eye pieces, B, 14 inch, $10.50.
1 Polariscope, Hoppe-Seylor's, $63.00.
In all very nearly $727. Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.




122


JUNE MIEETING, 1887.


On motion of Regent Whitman, the Auditing Board
were authorized to make the purchases named in the foregoing communication by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The following communication from   the Dean of the
School of Pharmacy was presented and read by Regent Whitman.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
SCHOOL OF 1PI-IARMACY,
Ann Arbor, June 28, 1887. )
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-By direction of the Faculty of the School of
Pharmacy, I respectfully report that the following named persons
have completed all the requirements for the degrees herewith writ
ten over their names.
FOR THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF PIHARPLMACY.
Edsel Alexander Ruddim'.n, Ph. C.
FOR THE DEGREE OF PHARMACEUTICAL CHEM3IST.


Charles Baker, B. S.,
Herman Louis Barie,
Adam John Baumhardt,
Emery Rice BeaI,
Louis Britten Carr,
Joseph Martin Croman,
William Henry Doehne,
William Arnold Dothany, B. S
Louis A. Dryfoos,
Richard Southard Dupont,
Leroy Adelbert Ellis,
Samuel Slokom Hance,
Florence Edith Hendershott,
Fred Joseph Henning,


Wilber Fisk Jackman, B. S.,
Mervin A. Jones,
Benjamin Silvanus Krause,
Willis Leisenring, B. S.:,
Edward I1all Marshall, A. B.,
Andrew Stuart Mitchell,
Gustave Adolph Reule,, Julius Otto Schlotterbeck,
Charles G. Shubel,
Darius Parsons Shuler,
Clayton Joseph Standart,
George Ballard Topping,
Abraham VanZwaluwenburg,
Willard McKenzie Warren,


Charles Delos Wiley.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. P RESCOTT, Dean.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


123


On motion of Regent Whitman, it was voted that the
degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist be conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Dr. H. K. Lum was reappointed Assistant in the Physiological Laboratory at a salary of $400, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor nominated the following persons for
appointments in the Homceopathic Medical College for the
ensuing year. John S. Campbell, M. D., to be House Surgeon and Assistant to the Professor of Materia Medica, at a
salary of $350; Samuel G. Milner, A. M., M. D., Assistant to
the Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, and to the Professor of Theory and Practice of Medicine, salary $200; Rodney C. Taylor, M. D., Assistant to the
Professor of Surgery, and to the Professor of Ophthalmology
and Otology, salary $200.
The appointments were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
George E. Fairbairn, not having been recommended by
the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, for graduation, because he had not presented himself
for examination in a study needed to complete his course, his
father appeared before the Board to inquire if the degree
sought by his son could be conferred. The Board, on motion
of Regent Draper, declined to grant the degree.
Doctor A. B. Prescott, Dean of the School of Pharmacy.
by a communication to the Board, recommended the following appointments in the Chemical Laboratory for the ensuing
year.




124


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


(1). That Alviso 13. Stevens be continued as instrutctor in Pharmacy. Salary $1,000.
(2). That Mrs. Kate C. Johnson be continued as dispensing clerk.
Salary $600.
(3). That Charles L. Davis be continued as Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry. Salary $250.
(4). That Frank C. Smith be Assistant in Qualitative Analysis.
Salary $250.
(5). That Abram Van Zwaluwenburg, Ph. C., be Assistant in
Pharmacognosy and Pharmacy. Salary $192.
(6). That William F. Edwards be Assistant in Qualitative Analy
sis. Salary $192.
(7). That John D. Biker be Assistant in Physiological Chemistry.
Salary $192.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the above appointments
were made in accordance with the recommendation of the
Dean of the School of Pharmacy, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper the sum of $75 was appropriated for advertising the Law Department.
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Yhitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Librarian, Secretary, and Treasurer, draw
the same salary as full Professors, and that the salary of all full
Professors be $2,200.
On motion the resolution of Regent Willett was referred
to the Finance Committee.
Regent Grosvenor moved that the Committee on Buildings and Grounds be associated with the Medical Committee
in disposing of such questions relating to Buildings as have
been referred to the Medical Committee. Carried.




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


125


On motion of Regent Grosvenor, an appropriation of
8155 was made for the purpose of purchasing one section cutter, and four microscopes for use in the Botanical Laboratory,
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the Auditing Board
were authorized to sell six microscopes now  in use in the
Botanical Laboratory, and to replace them with new ones of
improved construction.
On motion of Regent Clark, the title of Professor Morris
was changed to Professor of Philosophy.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution
which was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That on and after October 1st, 1887, the salaries of
Professors in the Medical College shall not exceed $2,000 per annum. Provided, however, that all Professors, whose salaries are
now established at $2,200, shall, on account of their long and valuable service, (unless otherwise ordered by the Board of Regents),
be entitled to the same salary during their continuance as such
Professors.
Regent Shearer read a communication from Professor
M. E. Cooley in regard to salaries in the Engineering Labor.
atory, which was referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Blair, T. C. Trueblood was retained as Teacher of Elocution for one semester of the ensuing year, at a salary of $1,000, one-half of his time to be given
to the Law Department, and the other half to the Literary
Department.
The vote on the above appointments was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
N ays-N one.




126


- JUNE MEETING, 1887.


On motion of Regent Shearer, J. M. Schaeberle was appointed Instructor in Astronomy at a salary of $900, by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Shearer, Ludovic Estes was appointed Instructor in Mathematics at a salary of $900 by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regent Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Shearer submitted the following resolutions which
were adopted.
WHEREAS, The Legislature has made appropriations to the
University for the construction and equipment of the several
buildings hereinafter named, to wit:
For additional heating apparatus and boiler house........................... $ 15,000
For forge and foundry rooms and equipment of same.................... 9,250
For machinery for the engineering laboratory...............................  6,750
Therefore, be it Resolved, That the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds be and are hereby directed to procure designs for the
several buildings named above, to receive proposals for the same,
to approve the contracts and the monthly estimates for the payment of the contractors, and to act for the Board in all matters
that may arise in connection with the operations in the completion
of the several buildings above named under the contracts made
for the same.
Resolved, That the President and Secretary of this Board be
and are hereby authorized and directed to sign contracts for this
Board for the new Boiler House and Heating Apparatus and for
the addition to the Engineering Laboratory, after the several contracts have been approved by the Committee on Buildings and
Grounds.
On motion of Regent Willett, the consideration of the
appointing of Professors in the Law Department, and of the
erection of a building for Scientific Laboratories, was deferred until the next meeting of the Board.




JUNE, MEETING, 1887.                19
Regent Shearer moved that the salary of Professor de
Pont as Secretary of the Literary Faculty be increased $200.
The motion was referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Field the Board adjourned to 7
o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
Regent Clark stated that Professor Cady had been called
upon to do a vast amount of extra work during the last semester, in preparing music for the Semi-Centennial and Commencement Week, and moved that the sum of $200 be allowed him as compensation for such extra labor. The motion of Regent Clark was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the matter of the scientific laboratories and
equipment be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds
to investigate and, upon consultation with the President and the
several Departments concerned and competent architects, to report at the next meeting of the Board what may be most expedient and advisable in the premises, and if a portion of the buildings
demanded may be constructed with the fund at command, and
that the sentiment of the Board is that the $35,000 be expended for
a building.
The resolution was amended by fixing the sum for the
building at $30,000, and was then adopted.
Regent Willett presented and read the following recommendations of the Library Committee of the Faculty.
(1). That a door be cut from the Reading Room into the Lecture
Room in the east wing of the Library building.
(2). That the salary of the assistants in charge of the Seminary
Rooms be reduced from $150 per annum to $125.
(3). That the salary of the assistant at the delivery desk be increased from $200 per annum to $225.
(4). That the salary of Miss Ida R. Morrish, Assistant in charge
of the catalogue, be increased from $500 per annum to $600.




128


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


(5). That in the division of the $5,000, appropriated by the Legislature for the maintenance of the Libraries of the University
for the year 1887-8, $3,500 be assigned to the General Library
for the year 1887.
The above recommendations were adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board adjourned to
8:30 to-morrow morning.
MORNING SESSION,
WEDNESDAY, June 29th.
The Board assembled at 8:30 A. r.
Full Board present.
Regent Blair moved that when the Board adjourn it
adjourn to July 8th, at 7 o'clock p. M. The motion was carried unanimously.
On motion of Regent Blair, the degree of Bachelor of
Laws was conferred upon "Anton Henry Classen."
On motion of Regent Clark it was voted that J. E. Reighard be put in charge of the instruction in Zoology for the
coming year and that he be appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Zoology for that period with the salary of $1,600 a
year. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, Mr. F. L. Washburn was
elected Instructor in Zoology for one year, beginning Oct. 1st,
at a salary of $900 a year.
On motion of Regent Willett, it was voted that the salary of Filibert Roth, Janitor in the Museum, be increased
on October 1st to $600 a year. The vote was:




JUNE MEETING, 1887.


129


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, it was voted that the
sum of $250 be appropriated for the purchase of microscopes
for the Zoological Laboratory and that the sum of $250 be
appropriated for the purchase of book on Systematic Zoology,
which are needed for work in the museum and especially for
identification of specimens. The vote stood:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field ax.d Whitman.
Nays-None.
By unanimous vote of the Board it was ordered that the
following honorary degrees be conferred.
The degree of Doctor of Philosophy on Captain Otto
Ernest Michaelis, U. S. A.; military and scientific writer.
The degree of Doctor of Laws on the following persons:
Justin Winsor, Librarian of Harvard University, bibliographer, historical editor, historian.
Granville Stanley Hall, Professor of Psychology and
Pedagogy, in Johns Hopkins University, philosopher.
William Petit Trowbridge, Professor in the School of
Mines of Columbia College, mathematical writer.
Henry Billings Brown, United States District Judge,
jurist.
Alexander Macfarlane, Professor of Physics in the University of Texas, physicist.
James Lambert High, writer on law.
James F. Joy, Ex-Regent of the University.
Edward Charles Pickering, Director of the Harvard College observatory, astronomer, physicist.
Thomas C. Chamberlin, President of the University of
Wisconsin, geologist.




130


JUNE MEETING, 1887.


Eugene Woldemor Hilgard, Professor in the University
of California, chemist, geologist.
Joshua Allen Lippincott, President of the University of
Kansas.
Thomas Corwin Mendenhall, President of Rose Polytechnic Institute, physicist.
John Wayne Champlin, Justice of the Supreme Court of
Michigan, jurist.
John W. Daniel, United States Senator from Virginia,
writer on law.
Asa Gray, Professor of Natural History and Director of
the Herbarium in Harvard University, botanist.
James Bryce, Professor of International Law in the University of Oxford, historian, constitutional lawyer, statesman.
Samuel Smith Harris, Bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Diocese of Michigan; pulpit orator, theologian.
Samuel Freeman Miller, Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, jurist.




SPECIAL MEETING.
JULY 8, 1887.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock p. M.
Present: The President, Regents Shearer, Grosvenor,
Blair, Draper, Clark, Field and Whitman.
Absent: Regent Willett.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution:
-Resolved, That the following appointments be made in the
Department of Medicine and Surgery for the ensuing year: George
Gundlach, M. D., Resident Physician and Surgeon in University
Hospital, salary $450. George W. Lacea, M. D., Wardmaster, salary $300. Patrick Scully, Nurse in male ward, salary $300. M. E.
Sinclair, Wardmistress, salary $300. Miss Ernestine J. Hicks,
XNurse in female ward, salary to be fixed by the Auditing Board.
James N. Martin, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Obstetrics
and Diseases of Women and Children, salary $100. Thomas C.
Phillips, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Materia Medica and
Ophthalmology, salary $100. Win. A. Campbell, M. D., to be Secretary of the Faculty at a salary of $200; and that Professor Maclean and Professor Palmer be authorized to appoint their own assistants at-a salary of $100 each.
The foregoing resolution of Regent Grosvenor was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, G. C. Huber, M. D.,
was appointed Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy at a salary of $450, by the following vote:




132


JUTLY MEETING, 1887.


lyes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the salary of Clarence G. Taylor, Superintends
ant of Shops in the Engineering Laboratory be fixed at 81,400;
that a skilled machinist be employed by the Auditing Board, at a
salary of $750; and that the Auditing Board be requested to provide for such janitor work as may be necessary in that laboratory.
The resolution of Regent Grosvenor was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor moved that the salary of Professor P.. de Pont as Secretary of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts be increased by the sum, of
$200, which was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark
Field and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Doctor Palmer, Dean
of the Medical Faculty, was allowed a clerk at a salary of
$200, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays —N one.
Regent Draper moved that Professors Griffin, Walker,
and Knowlton be continued as Professors in the Law Department for another year at the same salary. The vote on
this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair; Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper submitted the following which was con.
curred in by the entire Board.




JULY MEETING, 1887.                  133
The Board of Regents are in receipt of the following communication from Mr. Albert D. Elliott, a graduate of the Law
class of 1887.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN,
July 8th, 1887. i
Professor Henry Wade Rogers:
DEAR SIR:-Allow me to present to the Law Department, an
oil portrait of Hon. Thomas M. Cooley, who was for so many years
one of its honored Professors. I feel that the men who helped to
bring such great renown, not only. to the Law Department, but to
the whole University should be remembered. If the portrait of
Judge Cooley encourages like gifts from students or others of the
Alumni, I shall feel amply rewarded. Surely, the students of the
different departments will be benelitted by having before them in
the class room the portraits of those who have given the best years
of their lives to their instruction, and who have achieved greatness
and prominence. The portraits of such men as Judge Cooley,
Judge Campbell, Ex Gov. Felch and others will give birth to higher
thoughts and aspirations.
It is my wish that the portrait of Judge Cooley shall always
adorn the walls of the Law School, for his name and that of the
Law Department of the University of Michigan are inseparable.
Most respectfilly,
ALBERT D. ELLIOTT,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
The Board accepts the appropriate gift, and thanking Mr.
Elliott for the same, directs that it be hung upon the walls of the
lecture room of the Law Department, in compliance with the request of the donor.
Regent Clark, Chairman of the Literary Committee, presented and read the following communication from the Professors of Modern Languages.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
MEMORIAL CONCERNING THE DEPARTMENT OF MODERN LANGUJAGES.
To the Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-In view of the great size of the Department of
Modern Languages, and in view of other facts hereinafter set forth,
you are respectfully requested to take into consideration the ex



134


1JULY MiEETING, 1S7.


pediency of dividing the said department and of establishing in lieu
of the present single Professorship of Modern Languages, two
Professorships, one of the Iomance Languages and Literatures,
and one of the Germanic Languages and Literatures.
The Department of Modern Languages is now by far tle
largest in the University. Accurate data for comparison are f-urnished by the following table which gives tle total membership
for the present semester of all the classes in each of the subjects
mentioned.
Greek................  160   Philosophy............  25) Botany................  73
Latin........   54   Pedagogy.............   138Physiology.............  13
Mathematics......... 385  Interr:ational Law....  1l Drawing................ 1 8"
French.............  305  I Physics..  47  ivil Engineering.......  0
German............  35  Chemistry.............. 1  Surveyi ng............  25
Spanish..........  17\ Astronomy............. 174 Mechanical Engineering  93
- Minieralogy...........   16 Metallurgy.............  5
Modern  Languages.. 674  (Geolog..............  4   Musi..................  60
English..............  360  Zoology............  45 Bibliography............ 27
History.....4......... 348
From these figures it will be seen that the classes in Modern
Languages have at the present time an aggregate membership
more than four times as great as in Greek, two and a half times as
great as in Latin or Philosophy, somewhat less than twice as great
as in Mathematics, English or History, and considerably greater
than in all the Physical and Biological Sciences taken together and
including Geology and Mineralogy, a group of subjects represented by eight different professors.
To describe the situation in other words: Were tihe division
made as herein recommended, the classes in German would constitute by themselves one of the four largest departments of thle University, the nmembership of the classes in German nlot differing
materially from that of the classes in Mtathematics, English or
History. The classes in German number twice as many members
as in Greek, a third more than in Latin or Philosophy and from
two to twenty times as many as in any one of the scientific de —
partments.
Your attention is further called to the fact that -there is no
such relation between the French alnd German languages as rencers it necessary or even desirable to have them includlec uder a
single professorship. The historical connection between them is
less close than between the (Greek and the Latin, and either French
or German alone presents to the scholar a field wlhich is certainly
no less extensive and varied than that offered by either of the two
classical languages. It is also true that in recent years no branch
of scholarship has grown more rapidly in dignity and importance




JULY 1MEETING, 1887,


than Modern Philology. Both in Europe and in the United States
there has been of late a notable movement for the elevation of
standards of scholarship, and of the relquirements of academic instruction i the  oden Lagun the n  angges.  n the better I niversities of
Germany, the Romance Languages, with their history, comparative
philology, and their literatures, are now usually grouped together
as a single specialty, while the Germanic Languages with their
history, comparative philology, and literatures, constitute anotlelr.
In our own country a similar division of labor is rapidly cominlg to
be the rule. Thus we find at the Johns IIopkins iUniversity an
Associate Professor of Rom-ance Languages and an Associate Professor of German; at Bryn Mawr an Associate Professor of Rlomnance Languages and an Associate Professor of Germanic Languages; at Cornell, a Professor of Romance Languages and t\wo
Professors of the German Language and Literature. At the University of Indiana we find a Professor of Romance Languages and
a Professor of Germanic Languages.
So far as our own lli versity is concerned, a considerable extension of the scope of its instruction is desirable. There should
be cn tinuous instruction in both Italian and Spanish. Opportunity should also be offered as soon as possible to advanced students fur the study of Old French, Provencal and Portuguese, and
also for work in the comparative philology of the 1,omance tongues.
In the Germanic field, more work of a philological character for
advanced students is needed. The first desideratum is probably a
course in Gothic, the oldest known form  of (ermanic speech.
Scarcely less urgent than the Gothic, are the Scandivanian languages, the Old Icelandic, modern Swedish and Danish-Norwegian.  The language of Bjhrnson and Ibsen, the language of
Tegner and Iuneberg hiave, from a literary point of view, the very
highest claims to scholarly attention, while to tne Germanist some
knowledge of the Scandinavian languages is indispensable. Instruction in Gothic and in one or more of the Scandinavian languages, is now offered not only at all the well equipped universities of Germany, but also at many of the better institutions in our
own country.
The intrinsic importance of the modern languages in education is not a matter of dispute. While nothing, save perhaps a knowledge of the mother tongue, can in these days be called an indispensable element of liberal culture, yet a knowledge of French and
German is more and mlore coming to be recognized as an exceed.




i86


JULY MiFETING, 1887.


ingly desirable element in such culture. Without these languages
the scholar in almost any branch of inquiry is more or less crippled. Leaving aside any comparison with the ancient languages,
the educational or disciplinary value of the study of 'he modern
languages is admitted by all to be very great, and it is destined to
become greater still through the enlargement of the scope of instruction in these studies and through the improvement of pedagogical methods. Unless all the signs of the times are illusory,
the study of modern languages in school, college, and University
has before it a future of greatly increasing value and importance.
Wherever the elective system prevails, these subjects come to the
front; there is a popular demand for them and that demand is not
likely to diminish but rather to become stronger and more proriounced.
Is it not time, therefore, in view of all the considerations
above set forth, that the University of Miclligan should reorganize
its work in Modern Languages to the extent and in the manner
suggested at the beginning of this Memorial, and thus put itself at
once upon the line whic4a the practice of the best institutions is
pointing to as the true line of development for the future?
Respectfully submitted,
E. L. WALTEAl,
CALVIN THOMAS.
IRegent Clark submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Department of Modern Languages be divided, and that, in lieu of the present single Professorship of Modern
Languages, Professor Walter be appointed Professor of the Ilomance Languages and Literatures, anad Professor Thomas as Professor of the Germanic Languages and Literatures, each at a salary
of 32,200 per annum.
The vote on Regent Clark's resolution resulted as follows:
Ayes — egents Shearer, (rosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays —None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, John F. Eastwood, Ph.
D., was appointed Assistant in Organic Chemistry for one
year at a salary of *192, by the following vote:




JUL Y MEETING, 1,(i'7,1


3- Sil


Ayes —tegents Shearer, Grosvenor, T1Viair, Draper, Clailrk,.'ield
and Whitman.
Nays —None.
A communication was received frolm   Professor Langley
relating to the proper ventilation of the Medical.Building,
which was, on motion, referred to the (Committee on iBuildings and Grounds.
Of the legislative appropriation of e5,00,) for the puirchase of books, $8,500 had been set apart for tlhe General Library at a previous meeting of the Board. iRegent G-rosvenor
moved that the remaining 81,500 be divided as follows: To
the Medical Library,1,000, ald to the Law Library;t500,
The motion of Regent (4'rosvenor was carried unanimously.
Regent Shearer, Chairman of Commtuittee on 1uildings
and Grounds, submitted the following report:
A.NN A iBOpR, MiCIIc-mAX,    (
July 8, 1887,  5
The IHomorable the Boaril of Regents:
GENTLSEMEN: —The Committee on Pluildilngs and Grounds and
the Committee on Medical Department, to whom was referred
the matter of the Scientific Laboratories aid who were asked also
to report the most expedient and advisablel lan for the use of the
thirty-live thousand dollars appropriated for said laboratories,
would report as follows: viz.
First, as to the proper uses of the appropriation, your comamittees are assured that the intention of the originators of the bill
for the appropriation of,75i,000 -was for a new building and the
equipment of Laboratories for Physics, Hyg'_iene, LPatlology, P)Ihysiology and Histology.
Of this sum one-fifth appears to 1ave been intended for equipment and apparatus, and four-lifths (4-5) for a new buildilng.
As the bill was passed the total sum allowed for the above
named purposes was,35,000. It seems to your Commlittee a proper
interpretation of the intention of the legislatcors to assumi.e, that
the same proportion of the reduced appropria-tion should 'be set
aside for equipment and apparatus as was includedl in the orig-i



138


JULY MEETING, 18SRi


nal sum asked for. That is to say, that 1-5, equal to $i7,000, be allotted to equipment and apparatus, and that this sum be divided
by the Committee on Medical Department after consultation with
the Professors in charge of the laboratories above named, in proportion to their several needs; and that the several portions be expended uinder the supervision of the Auditing Board.
The above disposition leaves four-fifths, equal to $28,000, oi
the appropriation to be applied to the erection and completion of
a new building.
As this sum is much too small to erect a building sufficient to
accommodate all of the laboratories first proposed, your Colmmittees would recommend that a brick building be erected, three stories
in height, and on a plan suited to accommodate at least two (2) of
the laboratories, those of Hygiene and Physics, and that this proposed building shall be respectable and appropriate in design, and
not to exceed in cost the sum of $28,000.
Your Committee submit herewith rough plans for such a
building, which can be modified to suit the several departments.
Y our Committee would further recommend that the remaining laboratories be assigned rooms in the Medical College Building, selecting those that would be most conveniently served by
the present arrangement of rooms in that building; and that said
building be thoroughly cleansed, and be altered as to rooms, cases
&c., to suit the convenience of these departments and their relation to each other.
Also, that the rooms adjoining the elevator and the amphitheatre be thoroughly ventilated, and that all of the renovation,
alterations, ventilation &c., of the Medical College SBuilding Ie
made under the supervision of the Auditing Board, and that the
expense of said works be paid from the Repair Fund.
JAMES SHEARER,
Chairman, Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
E. (). GROSVENOR,
Chairman, Committee on Medical Department,
Pending the adoption of the report, Regent Whitman
submitted the following amendment:
Resolved, That the Committee on Buildings are authorized to
expend a sum not exceeding 330,000 in the erection of a building
for Scientific Laboratories, and that the balance of the appropria



JULY MEETING, 1887.


139


tion be held for apparatus, and expended as recommended in. the
report of the Committee.
The vote on the amendment resulted in its adoption.
A call vote was then taken on the adoption of the report
as amended, which resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Grosvenor moved that Professors Vaughan, Prescott and Langley be a committee to present a scheme for the
establishment of a Department of Hygiene in the University.
Carried.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board went into Executive Session. At the expiration of half an hour the business
of the open session was resumed.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the resignation of Professor B.1. C. Burt, which had been presented, was accepted.
On motion of Regtent 'Draper the Board adjourned to
tomorrow morningc at 8:30 o'clock, standard time.
MORNING         SESSION,
July 9th, 1887,
The Board reassembled at 8:30 o'clock.
On motion of IRegent Draper the Board went into Executive Session. After some time spent therein, the business of
the open session was resumed.
On motion of Regent Clark the vote by which Professors Griffin, Walker and Knowlton were appointed Professors
in the Law Department, was reconsidered.
On motion of Regent Clark, Professor Griffin and Professor Knowlton were reappointed in the Law  Department
for one year, by the following vote.




JULY MEETING, 18i7.


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark moved that Professor William P. Wells be
appointed Kent Professor of Law for one year at a salary of
$2,000.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
Regent Shearer submitted the following report of the
joint Committee on Buildings and Grounds, and on the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
July 8th, 1887.,
The Honorable the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-Your Committee on Buildings and Grounds
and that on Medical Department to whom were referred the plan
of Dr. Herdnian, and that of Dr. Ford for the uses and the application of the appropriation of $35,000, would report that they have
carefully considered these plans, and find that each has features
to be adopted, but not as an entirety.
As the result of the consideration of these plans, and as our
report on the same, your Committees respectfully refer mainly to
the report (herewith submitted) of the Committees on Buildings
and Grounds, and that of Medical Department, on the resolution
referring to the Scientific Laboratories, adding thereto a recommendation that a two storied building be erected at a cost not exceeding the sum of $6,000, for the uses of dissecting rooms and a
dead room, and that said building be located conveniently to the
Medical College, but not within 100 feet of the same.
JAMES SHEARER,
Chairman, Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
E. O. GROSYENOR,
Chairman, Committee on Medical Department.
The above report and recommendation of the Joint Committee were adopted, as follows:




JULY MEETING, 1887.


141


Ayes - Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
At the last meeting of the Board the Laws Committee
were requested to consider, and recommend to the next
meeting, a proper person to fill the chair in the Law Department made vacant by the resignation of Professor Hutchins.
The Committee make the following recommendation, that for
the coming year, the following gentlemen be invited to deliver courses of lectures as indicated below.
Melville M. Bigelow, Ph. D., of Boston, Mrass. 40 lectures on Equity, at a salary of $1,000.
Wim. G. Hammond, LL. D., of St. Louis, Mo. 15 lectures on "History of Common Law," at a salary of $300.
B. M. Thompson, Esq., of East Saginaw. 40 lectures on
"Real Property," at a salary of $1,000.
On motion of Regent Draper the above appointments
were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The question of continuing the use of the rank and title
of Associate Professor was, on motion of Regent Grosvenor,
referred to the Literary Committee for consideration with a
request that they report their conclusion at the next meeting
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Blair the Executive Committee
were authorized to select and appoint an Assistant Professor
of English and Rhetoric in place of Professor B. C. Burt, resigned.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Finance Committee
to whom was referred the following resolution, introduced
by Regent Willett at the last meeting of the Board,
"Resolved, That on and after October 1st, 1887, the Librarian receive a full Professor's salary, that the salaries of the Secretary and




142


JULY MEE TING, 128;ii.


Treasurer be increased to the same amoaunt, and that the salaries
of all Professors, not now drawing a full Professor's salary, be in
creased to that amount, all to date from October 1st, 188;"
Reported for the Committee that they have had the same
under consideration, and report the same back with the fol
lowing resolution as a substitute, and ask to be discharged
from the further consideration of the subject.
Resolved, That from and after October 1st,:1887, and until
otherwise ordered, the annual salary of Associate Professors
Elisha Jones and Albert H. Pattengill shall be $2,200 each. And
the salary of Professor Victor C. Vaughan, Professor VW. J. Herdman, and Professor Charles I. Stowell shall be $2,000 each, and
that the salary of Professor James C. \Wood and Professor Daniel
A. McLachlan shall be,2,000 each.
Regent Blair moved that so much of the report of the
Finance Committee as recommended the increase of the
salaries of Professors Jones and Pattengill be adopted. The
vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark, Field
and Whitman.
N ays-None.
Regent Blair moved that the remainder of Regent Grosvenor's report lie on the table until the October meeting,
Carried.
The following communication was received from       the
Library Committee of the Faculty.
[INI1VERlSITY OF MIClIGI'-AN, )
GENEIRAL LITII: ARI Y,
Ann Arbor, Mich., 1887.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Applications are not unfrequently made to the Library
Committee of the Faculty by post graduate students, and by teachers
from various parts of the state, who are using the Library during
the summer vacation, for permission to take books to their lodgings. As no fatal objection to doing so seemns to exist, the committee at a meeting held July 2d, after some discussion, passed the
following resolution:




JULY IMFIE TIaNG, 187.'


143


Resolved, That this (Coiommittee respectfully recommend to the
Board of Regents at the meeting on July 8th, to add to bection t6
of Chapter XXI., of the Laws and By-Laws of the U-niversity,
which reads as follows: "Members of the Faculties, the Librarian,
the Secretary and Steward, the Treasurer, members and ex-members of the Board, resident Ex-Profetsors, resident Clergymen occupying pulpits, the Superinteudent of the City Schools, and the,
Principal of the High S-chool, may draw books from the Libraries,
subject to the restrictions contained in other rules," these words:
And this privilege of drawing bookCs may, under special circuemstances, be extended to other persons at tthe discretion of the Library
Conmmittee of the Acade.ic Faculty.
Thle Commiittee do not jontemplate extending this privilege
to any except deserving persons. nor do they contem-plate granting
it in a way that shall interfere in the least with the prescribed uses
of the Library.
lRespectfully submitted.
-. C. D)A.V.IS,
Secretary of the Commlittee.
Regent Blair moved that the lBy-Laws be modified to
conform  to the recommendation of the Library Committee
as set forth in the foregoing comlmul-nication. The motion
was carried by the full -vote of the 1Board(
The Special Com.mittee to whom was referred the duty
of preparing a scheme for establishing a IDepartment of liygiene in the University made the following report:
UNIVrERXsrTY ()OF MI-C11IGAX, 
July 8, 1887
To the Honorable the Board of Regenlts:
GENTLEMEN: —he ulndersigned, the Committee to whom was
referred the question of the establishment of a Department of
Hygene, beg leave to report as follows:
(1). We believe that it is desirable to establish a departmlent
of Hygiene in this ULniversity,
(2) Inasmuch as hygiene is closely related to physiological
chemistry, we recommend that these two subjects be united under
one chair.




144


JULY M.EETING, 1887.


(3). We recommend that the title of the chair be that of
Professor of Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry and Director
of the Hygienic Laboratory.
(4). It seems to us necessary that the chair so named be provided with adequate assistance, and we recomrnend the appointment of an Instructor of Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
V. C. VAU(GHAN,
A. 13. PRESCOTT,
JOHN MW. LANGLEY.
On motion, the report of the Special Committee was
adopted unanimously.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the title of Professor
Vaughan was changed to Professor of Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry and Director of the Hygienic Laboratory,
and the appointment of an Instructor in the Hygienic Laboratory was left with the Executive C()mmittee, with power.
The following resolution introduced by Regent Shearer
was adopted unanimously.
Resolved, That the Committee on Buildcings and Grounds be
and are hereby authorized to procure and decide on designs and
specifications for the two buildings intended for Laboratories for
Physics and Hygiene in the one case, and for Anatomy in the
other; to approve contracts, &c, for all buildings; which contracts
are then to be signed by the President and Secretary of the B1oard,
after which said Committee are directed and authorized to proceed with the works of construction; to enforce the contracts; to
approve the monthly estimates for payment and settlement of all
contracts; and to control and do all things ththat the Board could
do, that are necessary to the completion of all of the buildings
ordered by the Board of Regents at this time.
Ann Arbor, Michigan, July 9th, 1887.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING.
1887 -UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 18, 1887. 
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock P. m.
Present-the President, Regents Shearer, Grosvenor,
Blair, Clark, Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Absent-Regent Draper.
The meeting was called to order and opened with devotional exercises by the President.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the minutes of the
two preceding meetings were approved as printed.
A number of communications which had reached the
President were, at his suggestion, referred to appropriate
committees of the Board.
The President stated that his annual report had been
prepared and was held subject to the pleasure of the
Board. Regent Shearer moved that the report be read
by the President. The motion prevailed.
PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I offer you my annual report for the year ending Sept.
30, 1887.
The following changes have occurred in the Faculties:
October 12, Alviso B. Stevens, PH. C., was appointed
Instructor in Pharmacy.




146


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


December 7, the title of Acting Professor Spaldiing
was changed to that of Professor of Botany.
December 21, the Executive Committee granted leave
of absence for the rest of the year to Professor T. M.
Cooley, and appointed for the same time William P. Wells
Lecturer on American History and Constitutional Law.
They also appointed J. M. Schaeberle, who was Assistant
in Astronomy, Instructor in Mathematics and Astronomy
for the remainder of the year.
At the March meeting of the Board the above action
of the Executive Committee was ratified. At the same
meeting the resignation of the Jay Professorship of Law
by I1. B. Hutchins, was accepted to take effect on October
1st. It is with regret that we lose from our corps of
teachers Professor Hutchins, who has rendered very valuable services as a member of the Law Faculty and in
former years as a member of the Literary Faculty. Tle
new law school of Cornell University is fortunate in
securing him as one of its professors.
At the June meeting of the Board, Henry C. Adams,
PH. D., who as Lecturer in Political Economy had for six
years given instruction for one semester of each year, was
appointed Professor of Political Economy and Finance and
required to give instruction through the whole year; Assistant Professor W;V.. Benan was appointed Professor
of Mathematics; the title of Professor Morris was changod
fiom Professor of Ethics and History of Philosophy and
Logic to Professor of Philosophy; and Professor Steere
received leave of absence for one year to conduct a scientific expedition to the Spanish East Indies. J. E. Reighard was appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Zoology
during the absence of Professor Steere. The following
appointments of instructors for one year were made:
Arthur AV. Burnett, Instructor in English; Andrew C.
McLaughlin, Instructor in History; Walter Miller, Instructor in Latin; S. W. Clary, Instructor in Modern Lan



OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


147


guages; J. M. Schaeberle, Instructor in Astronomy;
Ludovic Estes, Instructor in Mathematics; F. L. Washburn, Instructor in Zoology.
At the July meeting of the Board the resignation of
B. C. Burt, Assistant Professor of English and Rhetoric,
was offered and accepted.
The University sustained a heavy loss in the death of
Professor Olney, which occurred on the sixteenth of January.  He had filled the chair of Mathematics since
1863.  He had thus given nearly twenty-four of the
ripest years of his life to the service of this institution.
Few of its professors have contributed more to its usefulness and its reputation. As a teacher of' Mathematics his
gifts were remarkable. IHe awakened in his classes a
genuine enthusiasm in his favorite science. The number
of students who chose the elective courses which he
offered was always large. His methods of instruction
were so simple and lucid and charming that I have heard
his pupils say thlat the art of teaching could nowhere be
better learned than in his class-room. His mathematical
writings won for him an enviable reputation, and reflected honor on the University. But his interest in the
University was by no means confined to his class-room.
He took broad views of the work and policy of the University. He was largely instrumental in introdlucing the
various changes, which during thle last twenty years have
so widened and enlarged and enriched the teachings in
the Literary Department, and have brought that department into so fruitful relation with the schools and with
the public. He was always among the foremost in laboring for the moral and religious upbuilding of his pupils.
His activity both with voice and with pen in all moral
and religious enterprises, whether designed for the welfare
of the students or for tlat of the wider public, helped to
win favor for the University which he represented. His
earnest, positive, forceful character was a power for good




148


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


which was recognized far beyond the limits of his personal acquaintance. It is such men as he who are the
true builders of a University.
Below is given the list of degrees which have been
conferred. In accordance with the usage of Universities,
we mark our semi-centennial year by bestowing a much
larger number of honorary degrees than we are accustomed to confer. The policy of this institution in respect
to honorary degrees has been very conservative. It has
recognized the propriety of acknowledging distinguished
merit by academic distinctions, as the great Universities
of the world have long done, but it has selected a very
small number in each year as the recipients of such an
honor.  For the past ten years it has abstained from
giving degrees " in course."
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters --—.- -----  -.....      10
Bachelor of Science (Course in Mining Engineering) -.  1
Bachelor of Science (Course in Mechanical Engineering) ----  6
Bachelor of Science (Course in Civil Engineering) ---- - 10
Bachelor of Science (Course in General Science) --- —~  9
Bachelor of Philosophy —.. 17
Bachelor of Arts —                                  42
Master of Science --- -. --- —-----    -—.      -    2
Master of Philosophy ----. ----.-   __        1
Master of Arts -.-  --—. ----    -—. —.   —.      5
Doctor of Philosophy-.-                  -           2
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery). 81
Bachelor of Laws..      -..-.-.. 154
Pharmaceutical Chemist —..-                        31
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical College)-.... 13
Doctor of Dental Surgery                            27
411
HONORARY DEGREES.
Doctor of Philosophy -                               1
Doctor of Laws-                                     19
Total -..._.-                     431




OCTOBER MEEZTNG, 1887.               149
The number of students in attendance was as follows;
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Resident Graduates -25
Graduates Studying in absentia  -------         17
Candidates for a Degree ---------- ----- 540
Students not Candidates for a Degree  -  -     111-693


DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduate
Third Year Students...-. —.. ---
Second Year Students ----   -------
First Year Students          --


1
85
98
137-321


DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors- -- -      --     --- -         162
Juniors  -— _           -----       --  176-338
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.


Resident Graduate..
Second Year Students —
First Year Students. —..- -.. ---..


1
30
36- 67


HOMICEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Students-Total in the College _ --- —--- ---


62


COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Students-Total in the College                    91
1,572
The number of students exceeded that of the year
1885-6 by 171, and that of 1884-5 by 277. The largest increase during the past year, as compared with the previous
year, was in the Literary Department, 97, and in the Law
Department, 52. There was, however, a gain in every
Department except in that of Medicine and Surgery, which
lost six. As in the year 1885-6, we were gratified by the
large accessions to the Literary Department from other
colleges. About fifty were received from other institutions




150


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


of collegiate rank. No better evidence can be furnished
of the reputation which our advanced courses of instruction are giving to the University. With our elective system, our laboratories, and our means of illustrating higher
instruction, we may well hope to attract many students,
who have completed the more elementary studies in the
smaller colleges, and who desire to procure for the latter
part of their course the ampler range which is afforded
here. It is our true policy, indeed it is our duty, while
abating no jot of our thoroughness in the fundamental
work of the first two years, to do all in our power to enrich and enlarge the higher work of the undergraduates,
and the work of our resident graduates. It should not escape our attention that the number of graduates studying
either in residence or in absentia was forty-two. The
stimulating and lifting power of the presence of a body
of graduate students on the general spirit and life of the
University is very considerable.  It is highly gratifying
to see so many of the scholarly graduates of this and
of other institutions pushing their studies under our guidance far beyond the range of the undergraduate curriculunm.
In this connection we may properly recognize with
grateful appreciation the effort which the alumni are
makilng to establish one or more fellowships, to be tenable
by our graduates. The generous friends of the University
can most effectively contribute to its usefulness and to the
promotion of advanced scholarship by endowing fellowships, yielding from four hundred to six hundred dollars a
year. Such assistance will enable a few gifted scholars to
remain for a period after graduation and receive the
amplest culture which we can here impart.
It must, however, be remembered by us that the development of the post-graduate work makes larger demands
on the time of the Professors and so increases the necessity
of giving them more help for the instruction of the under



OCTOBER MAEETING, 1887.


151


graduates. Indeed the increase of the number of undergraduates by nearly one hundred this last year has made
this necessity so apparent, that the legislature has readily
made a timely appropriation for an addition to our force
of instructors. But an increase in the number of ograduate
students, no two of whom, it may be, are pursuing the same
line of studies, entails upon the Professors a much larger
proportionate increase of labor than the addition of an
equal or a much larger number of undergraduates.
The number of women in attendance during the past
year was as follows:
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts  175
Department of Medicine and Surgery --- — 51
Department of Law                            -- 
School of Pharmacy -                              2
Hornceopathic Medical College-                    27
College of Dental Surgery —                       4
Total —.        -—. 265
The number of women present was greater by 36 than
in the previous year. The number in attendance in the
Literary Department was greater by 40, and in the Homceopathic College greater by 7, and in the Department of
Medicine and Surgery less by 10 than in the previous year.
In the other Departments the difference was unimportant.
The women form sixteen and eight-tenths per cent. of' the
whole number of students. Last year they formed sixteen
and three-tenths per cent. There is therefore the slight
proportionate gain of one-half of one per cent. The largest
absolute and proportionate increase we find in the Literary
Department. Twenty-five per cent. of the students in that
Department are women. That is a proportionate increase
of two and a half per cent. as compared with the previous
year.
For a few years after women were admitted, it used to
be said, and with some truth, that our students' of that sex




152


OCTOBER MEETIING, 18S7.


were women of exceptional ability and force of character,
since others did not venture to come. Their success in
study, which could not be questioned, was ascribed to this
fact. It was urged by those who doubted the expediency
of receiving women, that when young women should come
in larger numbers, including those of average ability as
well as those of exceptional talent, embarrassments would
occur and the impolicy of admitting them would become
manifest. It is apparent that we are now put to the test
thus predicted. But the unfortunate results prophesied
have not appeared. We have indeed some women, as we
have some men, not eminent in scholarship. But no embarrassments of administration due to that fact have presented themselves. Nor can any inferences against receiving women into our class-rooms be properly made from
the fact. The womei who partially or wholly fail in their
work meet with the same fate as the men who have the
same difficulties. They neither ask nor expect any discriminations in their favor because they are women. But
the results of our experience has been confirmed at colleges
and universities on both sides of the Atlantic-and strikingly so in the great English Universities recently-where
women by their brilliant success have shown their ability
without risk to their health to meet the severest tests of
scholarship to which the male students are subjected. And
what is perhaps of equal importance, the advantaes derived from the University courses have proved as helpful
to the women in their lives subsequent to graduation as to
the men.
There is little in the history of the IHomoeopathic College, the School of Pharmacy, and the Dental College
during the past year, which calls for special comment.
They have each enjoyed a good degree of prosperity. I
can only repeat what I have said in previous reports concerning the need of larger accommodations for the Dental




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


153


College, if it is to receive all the students who desire to
matriculate. Its rooms are now uncomfortably crowded.
In the Law Department the experiment of grading the
course has been successful in a gratifying degree. Both
teachers and students heartily approve of it. More thorough, systematic, and efficient work is secured by it. The
instruction is to be enriched during the coming year by
brief courses of lectures on various subjects by distinguished specialists. We may well believe, therefore, that
the reputation of the Law School, which had so prosperous
a life from its foundation, will be deservedly enhanced
during the coming year.
The Department of Medicine and Surgery has had a
fairly prosperous year. It has been somewhat agitated by
the discussion in the public press and otherwise of the
proposition to provide in Detroit for the chief part of the
clinical instruction.  Since a special committee of the
Board is charged with the consideration of the subject, I
refrain from a discussion of the proposition, but feel it my
duty to say that in my judgment the good of the school
requires that some decision should be reached by the Board
as early as possible. While the matter is under discussion,
the uncertainty concerning our future plans has an injurious
effect on the school.
The reports of the Curators of our Museums show a
steady, but not very rapid increase of some of our collections during the past year.  A very large accession of
plants from the Lake Superior region, the gift of Mr. Frank
E. Wood, a former student of the University, has been received. The Museum of Applied Chemistry has been increased by the addition of 417 specimens, chiefly articles
which illustrate the more important chemical industries.
There is a need of cases for the Materia Medica collections
of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, which are
now stored in closets in the Chemical Laboratory. The




154


OCTOBER MIEETIANG, 1887.


Curator of the mineralogical collection repeats a suggestion
before made that a small sutm be annually placed at his
disposal for the purchase of specimens. It is much to be
regretted that we have so far been unable to purchase the
very valuable Rominger collection of paleontological
specimens. The Curator of the Art lMuseum reports tile
following additions to the art collection: a portrait bust
of the Hon. James McMillan, presented by himself at the
request of the President of the University; a full length
oil portrait of Dr. George P. Williamls, painted by A. 0.
Revenaugh and presented by him; an oil portrait of Professor Olney, presented by the last graduating class of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts; an oil
portrait of Professor C. L. Ford, presented by students of
the Medical and Dental Departments; an oil portrait of
Dr. H. S. Frieze, presented by Win. E. Quimby, Esq., of
Detroit; a model in plaster of the Acropolis of Athens,
made by Eichler, of Berlin, purchased by Prof. D'Ooge
with an appropriation made by the Regents. We have received information that another installment of the Rogers
collection of statuary may be expected during the coming
year.
A few facts from the Librarian's report which will be
submitted to you may properly be given here. The total
number of works in all our libraries is now 62,39S volumes,
12,411 unbound pamphlets, and 2G64 charts. Nearly twice
as many volumes were presented last year as were purchased. The most important gifts were the GermanAmerican Goethe Library, containing now 760 volumes,
and the collection bequeathed by the late W. W. IMurphy,
Esq., formerly Consul-General of the United States at
Frankfort-on-the-Main, which is especially rich in cartography. The total number of books drawn last year was
89,445 volumes. Few, if any, libraries are so much used.
The revised card catalogue of authors is nearly completed,
and that of subjects is now to be undertaken.




OCTOBER MIEETING, 1887.


155


The Williams Fund, raised by alumni and friends of the
University, primarily for assistance to the late Professor
George P. Williams, and then to establish some memnorial
for him, has by the action of the Alumni Association of
the Literary Department become a virtual addition to the
endowment funds of the University.  At the request of
that Association, the Regents voted in Mlarch to establish
an emeritus Williams Professorship on the plan set forth
in the following statement of the Association.
"It seems desirable that a Professor who may have
reached the period and condition for service at which Dr.
Williams had arrived when he received the proceeds and
income of this fund, should at the request of the Alumni
or Board of Directors be transferred from his own chair to
the Williams Professorship, which should be an emeritus
professorship, and should thereupon receive the income of
the said fund or so mnuch thereof as the Society of Alumni
should annually vote to him, or the Board of Directors
should deem advisable, and should there be more than one
needing the benefit of this fund at the same time, the professor first transferred or appointed should hold the professorship and the others in order, first, second, and third
assistants."
About fifteen thousand dollars have been paid to the
treasurer of the fund, and when other subscriptions thought
to be good are paid, the fund will reach the sum of at least
twenty thousand dollars. It is possible that the decision of
the Alumni and the Board to use it for this worthy purpose
may lead ultimately to the enlargement of the fund. We
have several Professors who have given more than a quarter of a century to the service of the University. It mlust
henceforth not unfrequently happen that of our large staff
of teachers, some by reason of disease or accident, or the
infirmities of years will be unable to discharge the full
duties of Professors, and will yet find that at least a partial
support for themselves and families must be had from some




156


OCTOBER MEETING, 18S7.


other source than from the increase of the scanty accumulation which meagre salaries have yielded. This fund will
be used to render them assistance when aid is needed to
cheer their declining years. It must be that so worthy an
object will appeal to the generosity of the graduates who
are inspired with affection and gratitude for their venerable
teachers.
The Legislature at its last session made appropriations
as follows, in aid of the University:  For repairs, 1887,
$5,000; 1888, $5,000; for contingent expenses, 1887, $6,250;
1888, $6,250; for books for libraries, 1887, $5,000; 1888,
$5,000; for the homceopathic college and hospitals, 1887,
$6,200; 188S, $6,200; for the university hospital, 1887, $5,000; 1888, $5,000; for the dental college, 188S, $8,000;
1888, $8,000; for apparatus for the department of natural philosophy, 1887, $2,000; 1888, $2.000; for defraying the expenses of transportation and placing of the
Rogers collection of statuary, 1887, $1,973.01; for reimbursing the University for expenses of transportation
and placing of the Chinese exhibit, 1887, $1,792.93; for
construction of a vault for the storage of chemicals,
1887, $400; for construction of rooms for forge and foundry
and equipment of the same, 18S7, $5,000; 188S, $4,250;
for machinery for engineering laboratory, 1887, $6,750;
for the construction of a building for scientific laboratories and equipment of the same, 1887, $35,000; for
the erection of a boiler house, the purchase of boilers
and of steam  heating connections, 1887, $15,000; for
additional salaries and teaching force, 1887, $5,000; 1888,
5,000. The entire appropriation is, 1887, $108,365.94; 1888,
$46,700. Total, $155,065.94.
By this generous action of the Legislature we are enabled not only to carry on our varied work as we have
done hitherto, but also to make much needed enlargements of our accommodations. The coimpletion of the
engineering laboratory, according to the original plan, will




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


157


enable us to provide for all our students of engineering the
instruction in mechanical processes needed by them. The
erection of a new boiler house makes it possible to furnish
heat economically and safely to the group of buildings
east and south of the library. The construction of the
buildings, which shall contain the physical laboratory and
the hygienic laboratory, will enable us to give in a more
efficient manner than before the instruction in physics and
hygiene. Our provisions for laboratory instruction in phlysics have been far inferior to those of many other institutions, and inferior to our provisions for instruction in other
branches of science. It will be our duty now to see that
our new laboratory is kept furnished with the appliances
needed for the best instruction in this fundamental scientific branch. Researches, which have proved of the very
highest importance to the public, have already have been
conducted by our Professor of Hygiene, and we may confidently expect that our new laboratory of hygiene will not
only be of great service in instructing our students, but
will also be instrumental in promoting the sanitary interests of the state and the country.
It having been found advisable to furnish in the medical building ampler accommodation for the physiological
and microscopical laboratories, we were forced to erect a
new building for our anatomical work, and to make large
changes in the medical building. This has entailed an expense for which no provision had been made by special
appropriation. But the necessity was so pressing that the
wisdom of the step taken cannot be questioned. We gain
the great incidental advantage of securing improved sanitary conditions for the medical building by the removal
from it of all the work of dissection. Never before was it
so well fitted for its purpose as it is now.
Discussions in the Legislature and in the public press
have called attention afresh to the question whether the
fees of non-resident students ought to be raised. The
Board has frequently considered this subject and has in



158


OCTOBER 3MEETING. 1887.


creased them from time to time. In my annual report for
1885, I set forth in detail the consequences of the increase
which had been made in the fees in 1881.  I may repeat
here the figures then given and add the statistics for the
last year.
ATTENDANCE OF STUDENTS.
Year.           From Michigan.  Non-Residents.    Total.
1881-2 (old fees)    688            846            1534
1882-3 (increased fees)  671        769            1440
1883-4.       6 - 70         77             1377
1884-5    "     "    644            651            1295
1885-6    "     "    717            684            140t
1886-7    "     "    791            781            1572
The fees paid by non-resident students in 1881-2
amounted to $21,100. In 1884-5, the rate having for three
years been increased, the sum received from them   was
only $21,800. The number of non-resident students in
1881-2 has not yet been reached again, although the total
attendance has been greater during the past year. That
class of students numbered 65 less last year than it
did five years before. The following tabular statement of
students' fees for the past year is instructive in this connection. It comprises the matriculation an'd annual fees
alone, but omits the laboratory and graduation fees. These
two last are divided relatively between resident and nonresident students in substantially the same proportion as
the two former kinds of fees.
Departments.            ~ ~ -   '    j ~
kir,0~~  ^ fi T3a~~a  4
S-  ~ 'C  = ' "~ I  ' '
Department of Literature, Science,and_
the A1rts-  -.-      —, 416 277 9 810 11 280 693 $21040
Department of Medicine and Surgery-.-  147  1741 4 2-25  8 155  321i 12 280
Deprt'nmelit of Law  -------—. 108 230oi 3 160l 11 50U;138 14 6(;0
School of Pharmacy ----------  43 24 1 245 1 215 67i 2 460
Hotnoeopathic Medical College -   321  30|  930  1 480  62i  2 410
Collee oi Dental Surgery — -----  4  46 1 285  1 400   1  2 685
Total --- —---------        7911 781 20 655  31 980 1 572 $55 635
Depl'tert  o,ledi c ne eri Sugey__ 1~ 1~1  a35 7;J 31~, 1:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


159


These statements make it very clear that we may
easily increase the fees of non-resident students so rapidly
as to incur not only a serious loss in attendance, but an
actual pecuniary loss. As a matter of fact, wherever instruction is given by lectures, as it is mainly in the
professional schools and to a considerable extent in the
Literary Department, the instruction of the non-resident
students adds little or nothing to the expense required
for thle instruction of the Michigan students alone. It
is well known that almost without exception for many
years the fees from the non resident students in the
Law School have more than met the entire cost of
instruction in the school.  Take the figures in that
school for the  last year as   an illustration.  The
fees of the non-resident law students amounted to $11,500,
and the total expenditure for salaries of instructors in the
Law Department was only $10,100. It will be observed,
also, that in the Department of Medicine and Surgery,
the fees paid by the non-resident students amount to
nearly twice as much of those of the Michigan students, in
the Law Depailrtment nearly four times as rimuch, a1nd in
the whole University seventy-five per cent more. It is
doubtful whether tile total expense of giving as good an
education as we now give, would be diminisled by ten
thousand dollars a year, if all the non-resident students
were excluded and the present number of Michigan students were in attendance. Since the fees received from
them last year were $34,980, it is clear that on0 tlie present
scale of fees they are a source of profit rather than loss to
the treasury.
Nor in considering this subject can we ever permit
ourselves to forget that our original and chief permanent
endowmlent was the gift of the United States, and that
therefore there rests on us the obligation to treat generously students from all parts of tlhe Union. Furthermore,
the presence of students from other States than our own,




160


OCTOBER 3EEETINVG, 1887.


contributes very greatly to the reputation of the University, and awakens a pride in it among our own citizens, and
so attracts to its halls many Michigan students, who would
otherwise go elsewhere for their education.  This cosmopolitan life which the presence of students from all parts
of the world gives to the University, is of inestimable
value to the Michigan student by giving him an acquaintance with men of so many varieties of early traiiing. In
this microcosm he acquires a breadth of culture and fulness
of experience which are of the greatest service in preparing him for his subsequent career.  If unhappily a policy
should ever be adopted which should deprive us of the
presence of non-resident students, the University would
then become a local school with a narrow reputation and
a restricted influence.
It may be thought, it has sometimes been said, that
we do not now charge the non-residents as much as other
institutions, and therefore that we may well raise our
fees. On examination of the facts it will be found that
we now charge higher fees than the other State Universities. Bearing in mind that our charges to non-residents
are as follows: Literary Department, first year, $55, each
subsequent year, $30; Professional Schools, first year, $t60,
each subsequent year, $35, let us notice the charges at
some other western universities.
Ohio    State University-_                 $ 15 a year.


Indiana   "
Iowa 
Iowa      "
Iowa      "
Wisconsin "
Wisconsin "
Wisconsin "
Nebraska "
California "
Minnesota "
Kansas    "
Illinois  "


"t      _~  _   ~ —      __-     15 a year.
6"    Literary dept --- —-----    25 a year.
Professional dept's. — 38 to 53, 1st year.
"     Professional dept's -33 to 48, 2d year.
(  Literary dept ---           18 a year.
Law dept                   50, 1st year.
i"    Law dept-                 25, 2d year.
i"    All dept's -- -  -      Tuition free.
Literary and Law --- —      Tuition free.
"     All dept's --- —-            5 a year.
Literary and Law depts        10 a year.
Literary dept —.             45 a year.




OCTOBER MIEEYTING, 1887.


161


It will be readily seen that in most of the above
institutions the fees are materially smaller than ours.
Any important increase in our charges must tend to prevent students from most of the States in which they are
established from coming to us.
But we are told that whatever are the facts in the
west, the fees in the eastern colleges are much larger than
ours. Let us notice what are the fees in a few representative institutions.
Cornell University                         $ 75 a year.
Williams College ___90 a year.
Brown University._..                      100 a year.
Amherst College......-~~~ 110 a year.
Yale College, Literary   --          -      125 a year.
"I    "   Law -.-                         100 a year.
" 'i      Medical                         125 a year.
Harvard University, Literary           --   150 a year.
iL 6" Law ---                     -       150 a year.
"        "    Medical --                200 a year.
These charges are indeed larger than ours. But it
must be remembered that all these institutions and the
eastern colleges generally have funds for the pecuniary
assistance of students and that in each of them a large
proportion of the students receive enough to pay for their
tuition, and in some cases more than that, while we have
no provision for remitting the fees to any student. Cornell University, for instance, has 512 state scholarships,
giving free tuition to the holders, nine university scholarships, yielding $200 a year, eight fellowships for graduates,
ielding $400 a year, and tuition is free to graduate
students. Williams College has funds which enable it to
give to each of fifteen or twenty men $150 a year, to each
of twelve more $105 a year, to each of eight more $120 a
year, and to fifty or sixty others the tuition, $90 a year,
About one hundred students of the entire number, two
hundred and seventy, more than one-third of all, are thus
aided. Other assistance is also given in certain cases.


2




162


OC'TO BER IfEETING, 1887.


Brown University has a fund of over $152,000, the proceeds of which are given in various ways in aid of students. Amherst College.distributes $8000 a year in
scholarships and over $1,600 a year in prizes. Yale University aids 120 students annually with scholarships,
yielding from $60 to $200, and 25 other students with
scholarships or fellowships conferred for proficiency in
studies, and yielding from $55 to $600 each9 and distributes $1,000 annually in prizes. Harvard- University
now distributes to students $66,000 a year, a sum larger
than our total receipts from students. The authorities of
that institution announce officially that no young man of
marked ability and good character need stay away from
Harvard on account of poverty. Every such person who
wishes to study there is assured that he shall receive the
aid needed to enable him to complete his course. It will
be seen from these facts that it is utterly misleading to
infer from the published rates of tuition in the eastern
colleges that they are receiving twice or thrice as much as
we from their students because their nominal fees are
twice or thrice as large as ours. It may well be that a
student who receives the income from some of the scholarships or fellowships in one of these colleges is subjected
to less expense than the average undergraduate here.
Upon consideration of all the facts 1 think we must conclude that if we have regard to the fees charged by other
colleges and Universities9 or to our own experience in
rai-sing the -fees of non-resident. students we cannot safely
ask more at present of our neon-resident students.
It is sometimes said that t[le University is the school
of the rich rather than of pupils in moderate circumstances. It is occasionally spoken of tauntingly by those not
familiar with its interior life as "aristocratic"'~ I made an
effort last autumn to gather statistics concerning the pu'rsuits of the parents of our students. I sent a circular to
each student asking him to inform me what was the occu



OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


163


pation of his father.  I received answers from   1,406
persons. Of the pursuits most largely represented I give
the figures as follows: Farmers, 502; merchants, (the
term is used in the west to describe retail tradesmen as
well as wholesale dealers), 171; lawyers, (including six
professors), 93; physicians, 83; manufacturers, 52; mechanics, 54; clergymen, 51; real estate and insurance
agents, 33; bankers and brokers, 28; teachers, 26; lumbermen, 24; contractors and builders, 17; salesmen, clerks,
and book keepers, 17; druggists and chemists, 16; tailors,
15; dealers in live stock, 14; millers, 14; commercial
travelers, 14; dentists, 12; common laborers, 8.
Most persons will be surprised to see how greatly the
number of farmers' children exceeds every other class.
If we assume that the farmers gain their living by manual
toil, and add to them the other classes who unquestionably support themselves by physical labor, I estimate
that the fathers of 45 per cent. of the students who
reported may properly be considered as thus gaining their
livelihood. Of course the classification thus obtained is
only approximately correct. Some of the farmers probably are not subjected to strenuous toil. On the other
hand, many of those classed as merchants, retail grocers,
for instance, lead alife which is physically as fatiguing and
as truly devoted to manual labor as is the life of the carpenter. But certainly the figures do show what everyone
familiar with our students knows to be true, that the sons
and daughters of the rich do not form a very large percentage of the whole number. A very large proportion of
our undergraduates have by hard toil and great selfdenial earned the means to support themselves in whole
or in large part while here. Not a few continue to remain
here only by the practice of an economy which too often
endangers their health.
I desire to make grateful mention in this report of the
efforts which Christian churches are making for the spirit



164


OCTOBER MEETINGG,1887.


ual culture of our students. The churches in this city have
always manifested the warmest interest in the welfare of
the students, and have spared no pains to make this place
a home, in which wholesome and helpful, social and moral
influences should be extended upon the great company of
young men and young women who gather under our roof.
But recently there have been manifestations of a wider
and deeper interest in them. Large-hearted communicants of the Protestant Episcopal church have erected a
fine building to serve as a special religious home for
students and have provided for courses of lectures on
religious themes by eminent men. The Presbyterians
are making arrangements for occupying with a similar end
in view a comodious house, which a generous woman has
placed at their disposal. There is also good ground to
hope that the efforts to secure the funds for the erection
and endowment of a suitable building for the Students'
Christian Association are soon to be crowned with success
While we believe we are right in not compelling the
attendance of students on religious services, we are pro
foundly appreciative of all the assistance we receive in
furnishing them with the means of spiritual culture, which
is the crown of all culture. The conditions of life here
now are, as we think, most friendly to the moral and
spiritual growth of all connected with the University.
The semi-centennial celebration of the founding of
the University was a memorable occasion. The attendance of the alumni and friends of the institution equalled
our highest anticipations. A considerable number of the
most important American colleges and universities were
represented by delegate's. Most cordial greetings were
sent to us from the great universities beyond the sea. The
devotion and enthusiasm of the many friends of the University were so pleasantly manifested that we cannot see
her enter upon her second half century without new hope
and cheer. The progress of the arts and the sciences, the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1SS7.


165


improvement in methods of education, and the increasing
number of students, are making larger and larger demands
on her strength. But the generosity of the State has enabled us thus far to meet those demands in at least a
fairly satisfactory manner. We have the fullest confidence.
that we shall be properly sustained in all well considered
efforts to make her future career worthy of her splendid.
history, and worthy of the fame and intelligence of this
prosperous commonwealth.      JAMES B. ANGELL.
Regent Field presented the following resolution which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the report of the President be accepted and
printed in the minutes, and that one thousand extra copies be
printed and bound in paper covers, for the use of the Board and
of the University.
Ayes.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett,
Field, and Whitman.
Ncays.-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Board listened to
the foliowing report of the Librarian:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Mlchigan:
Gentlemen: I have the honor to submit for your consideraation my report on the Libraries of the University for theyear
1886-87.
The University possessed, Sept. 30, 1887, 62,398 volumes, 12,411 unbound pamphlets, and 264 charts.
Of these there are in the General Library, 48,971 volumes,
11,549 pamphlets, and 264 maps; in theLaw Library, 9,565 volumes; in the Medical Library, 3,447 volumes and 862 pamphlets; in the Library of the Dental College, 415 volumes.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The additions to the General Library during the year have
been 1,804 volumes and 245 pamphlets.' Of these, 419 volumes
and 24 pamphlets were purchased; 1,093 volumes and 221
pamphlets were presented, and 292 were the result of binding
periodicals.
The expenditures, exclusive of bills of transportation which
do not reach me, have been $1,802.17. Of this sum, $902.64 were




166


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


paid for books and pamphlets, $4q3.93 for subscriptions to periodicals, and $306.55 for binding and mending. These sums were
paid out of the special appropriation of the Legislature for the
purchase of books for the year 1886. In addition there was paid
out of the current expense fund for catalogue cards, tickets for
readers, labels for books, etc., $129.05.
The sum at the command of the Library Committee for the
purchase of books during the year, was very small. The greater
part of the appropriation for 1886 was expended during the early
part of that year, and the appropriation for 1887 was not made
early enough to be of any use before the closing of college.
We owe it, therefore, entirely to the generosity of the friends of
the University that our acquisitions for the year have been at
all respectable in extent. Almost twice as many volumes were
presented as were acquired in all other ways. The more important gifts are the " German-American Goethe Library," and
the " Murphy Collection." The history of the Goethe Library
-its inception, and the progress made in securing funds-was
given in the report of last year. It numbers now 625 volumes,
and there are on the way from Germany a case containing 135
volumes more.
The "Murphy Collection " was bequeathed to the Library
by the late W. W. Murphy, Esq., formerly Consul General of
the United States at Frankfort-on-the-Main. The extent of the
collection is 154 volumes, 8 pamphlets, and 51 loose maps. A
great many departments of literature are represented. That in
which there are the most books is cartography, and in this direction the collection may fairly be called rich. A list of all the
persons who have made less important, but yet very valuable,
gifts, would be too long for this report. ~ If it were given, however, nearly all the names that have appeared in this connection
in former reports, would again appear, and there would also be
new ones.
I have in every case made that grateful acknowledgement
that the rules require and that one's feelings prompt. It is
proper to refer in this coilnection to what was revealed to the
Board last summlner-viz.-that the unknown friend whose:renerosity supplied the volumes that fill the cases in the East
Seminary Room, is Mr. James J. Hagerman, of the Class of '61.
This is not the first time that Mr. Hagerman has given substantial proof of his interest in Alma Mater.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


167


The statistics show that the Library was used more this
year than last.
The number of books drawn and used in the Reading Room
was      ---------------- -           87,500
The number drawn out by Professors -------------   1,945
A total of -- ---------— 89,445 volumes.
Tickets of admission to the bookroom were granted to sixteen persons who made 388 visits to the shelves. In the course
of the year 247 students were admitted to the Seminary 'Rooms
-184 to the West Room for the study of English Literature,
Latin, Greek, and Art, and 89 to the East Room for the study of
History, Political Economy, Philosophy, and the Art of Teaching.
A few volumes have disappeared, but their reappearance is
hoped for. One of the seven reported missing last year, viz.:
Fairbairn's " Studies in the Philosophy of Religion and History," was found when the last annual inspection was made.
The books are, very generally, in good condition.
The chief work of the year, outside of what may be called
the routine of duties, has been on the catalogue. The new case,
authorized by the Board, was ready for the reception of cards at
the beginning of the year. The object to be gained by the construction of a new case, and by the transcription of the old
cards, was a better working catalogue. The changes that have
been made, both of a mechanical nature, and in the system,
promise very good results. The revision and transcription of
the catalogue of authors is nearly completed. In a few days we
hope to place the case in position for use.
The revision and transcription of the catalogue of subjects
will constitute the chief work of the present year.
The fact that this is thle semi-centennial year of the University will justify me, I think, in reviewing briefly the history
of the Library, in this report. I shall also present, as definitely
as I can, the present condition and needs of the Library, and
make some suggestions for the future.
The first period in this history of the Library was from 1837
to 1857., There were at the later date 6,000 volumes in the collection. It could hardly be said of them that they were shelved.
The use made of them was small. Students were allowed to
draw and have at one time ten volumes-provided, that the
faculty had "directly specified" that the books drawn were




168


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


suitable ones. It is on record that the members of the faculty of
that time were of the opinion that there were very few books
in the Library " which would be useful to students in their
collegiate course." As far-as this first period can be characterized, it was a period of accumulation-but not very rapid accumulation, even for the time. There was no Librarian, in the
proper sense of the word.
The second period extended from 1857 to 1864. At the
former' date the books were shelved in connection with a reading room, and the Library became one of reference. A librarian
with regularly defined duties was appointed, and the Library
opened for consultation every day. A voluntary use of the
books by the students that was large and gratifying, began at
once. Facilities for learning what was in the collection, however, there were none-no catalogue. This period may be characterized as a period of awakening. The librarians were Mr.
John L. Tappan, 1857-63, and Mr. Datus C. Brooks, 1863-64.
The library contained at the last date, 1864, 12,000 volumes.
The third period extended from 1865 to 1877 and covers the
time during which the librarianship was held by Professor Andrew Ten Brook. During this time a key to tie collection was
prepared-a card catalogue. This increased, as might be expected, that voluntary use of the books to which reference has
been made. It was in this period that the first important gift of
books was made to the Library by an individual-viz., the Rau
Library presented by Hon. Philo Parsons, and now known as
the Parsons Library. I characterize this period as one of general growth-growth in facilities for learning what was in the
collection-growth in use, and growth, in a moderate degree, in
extent. The number of volumes in 1877 was 23,500, and 7,000
unbound pamphlets.
The fourth period extends from 1877 to the present timejust a decade. It has been a period of accumulation. Care has
been taken to keep up and to improve the catalogue, and the
use of the books by the students has been in every way encouraged, but those charged with the interests of the Library have,
for reasons to appear immediately, regarded accumulation as the
duty lying most heavily upon them. The principal events of
the ten years have been the regular annual appropriations by
the Legislature of the State for the purchase of books; the erection of the Library building; large and valuable gifts of books




OCTOBER M3EETING, 1887.


169


from individuals, singly and associated; and the beginning of a
prescribed use of the books-a use required of the student by his
instructor. To supply books for this use is the great function of
a University Library.
This fourth period is identical with my own connection
with the Library as chief. Its history not only illustrates how
necessary accumulation, which I have said has been foremost in
our.minds, has been, but it illustrates also, how inadequate all
the additions we have been able to make, are, to keep the Library up with the demands upon it that have been created by
the growth of the University during this time. How great this
growth has been is apparent from the following facts: In 1879 a
"Chair of the Science and the Art of Teaching" was established;
in 1880 a " Department of Music "; in 1881 a " School of Political Science," and a " Department of Mechanical Engineering;"
and in 1885 a " Biological Laboratory " for experimental work.
The Post Graduate work which was contemplated when the
University began her career, and which has never been lost
sight of, had its beginning practically in this last decade. The
widest range is given to these students in their choice of work.
But limitations in that choice are reached, as soon as, in arrangemnent of details, an account is taken of books. In some
cases there is not a volume; in others only a few-in very few
cases are there all that are necessary. Of this class of students
there were resident in the city last year, twenty-four.
This decade has also witnessed a great change in undergraduate work. The student instead of learning his lessons
from one book which is his own property, learns it from a number of library books to which he is referred by his instructor.
This is true in a large degree of the undergraduate pursuing the
old prescribed studies, as well as true of him who pursues the
more recent elective studies.
Now there has been no proportionate increase of the library
fund.  The representatives of the new departments of Teaching, Music, Policical Science, Mechanical Engineering, and Biology, finding the literature on their subjects wanting, camne
one after the other to the Library Committee for books. The
Professors having in hand the work of the post graduates, and
those who have adopted the new methods of seminary instruction, pressed, all of them, for more material. The committee,
in consequence, has continually spread the fund over more and




170


OCTOBER MEEIING, 1887.


more ground, until it has become lamentably thin. Meanwhile,
the committee has studied laboriously to make the money go as
far as possible, and, I think, have performed miracles in that
direction. They have vastly increased the tale of bricks-to use
an old illustration-without much increase of clay and straw.
It is on account of this conscientious labor of the committee,
and its results, that I have characterized this period as one of
accumulation. Everything has been done, except to go out on
the highway with a pistol, and call on the passers-by to stand
and deliver. I confess that it has occurred to me to do this.
The needs of the Library at present are, in Literatnre, the
best editions of the standard authors, and the critical literature
that has grown up around the works respectively. Some authors we do not possess at all, of others only one or two works,
of a very few only, full representations. In History and Political Science we lack especially serial publications and documents.  Mr. Freeman, the eminent historian, says in his
" Methods of Historical Study "-" The one foundation of learning is the mastery of original texts. That must come first;
there is much for the student himself, much for the tutor and
professor, to add in the way of comment and illustration and
comparison of text with text. But knowledge of a man's books
is the beginning, the foundation, the absolutely needful thing,
without which all the rest is vanity."' He reiterates this, adding, satirically, that even all that the " newest German book"
can tell himr, will not much avail the student without a knowledge of original authorities. We have portions of some of these
authorities, but not the means of completing them. In the
Sciences, pure and applied, the case is much the same.
Now how shall our slender resources —slender for the demand that is made upon thern —be increased? I think a better
knowledge of us on the part of the people of the State would
help us. The general impression in regard to the Library at
present is that it is restricted in its use to the officers and students of the University-or, if others are admitted to its privileges, it is on the payment of a fee-things that are true of many
college libraries.  I think our treatment by the public, directly, and indirectly through the Legislature, will be more
generous if it is generally known that the Library is a free reference Library, and that it is open for consultation twelve out
of the twenty-four hours of the day. The inventor working to




OCTOBER IMEETING, 1887.


171


improve mechanical and chemical processes, needs access to the
Patent Office Reports of all countries. If he knows that the
Library is open to himn, and that he is welcome to the use of all
the Reports we have-all the books that we have that can help
him in any way,-he will feel a personal interest in the increase
of the number of them. This is true of all who work with
books for any purpose-and they are more or less numerous in
any community. Really, the University Library is the Public
Library of the State, for the increase of knowledge. The cooperation of all, in every effective way, is asked for making known
this true character of the Library. If this is done, I predict for
him who shall stand in my place fifty years hence, and report
on the Libraries of the University on her Centennial year-I
predict for him a pleasant duty, and for the Library under his
charge, a proud record.
THE MEDICAL LIBRARY.
During the year just ended, the Medical Library has had
only sufficient money to pay for its periodicals, its binding, and
for the series of works, such as the Sydenham  Society publications, and the Dictionnaire des Sciences Medicales, to which
it has long been a subscriber. The additions for the year have
been eighty-seven volumes and twenty pamphlets. Of these,
fourteen volumes were purchased, eight volumes and twenty
pamphlets presented, and sixty-five volumes were the result of
binding periodicals. The total of bills paid has been $377.38.
Classified, the sums of this were as follows:
For books-whole volumes and parts of volumes ----------- $103.30
Subscriptions to Periodicals. — --------------------  95.88
Binding -------------------------------              78.20
The members of the Board will retmember that they assigned $1,000 of the Legislative appropriation for the present
year, to this Library. With this we shall be able to extend and
strengthen the collection not a little.
The additions to the Law Library have been 315 volumes;
to the Library of the Dental College, 11 volumes.
Certain changes have taken place in the force e gaged in
the General Library. Mr. G. F. James, general assistant, has
been succeeded by Mr. F. N. Scott. Mr. A. J. Lovell and Mr.
G. W. Lacea, assistants in charge of the Seminary Rooms, have




172


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


been succeeded by Mr. P. M. Hickey and Mr. F. F. Lehman.
Mr. D. C. Worcester and Mr. F. F. Lehman, desk attendants,
have been succeeded by Mr. F. A. Waples and Mr. A. H. Hopkins.             Very respectfully submitted,
R. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
On motion of Regent Clark the report of the Librarian was accepted and ordered printed in the proceedings.
Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Medical Committee, presented and read the following communication
from the Faculty of the Medical Department:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-At the meeting of the Medical Faculty, Oct.
5th, the following resolution was unanimously passed:
"Whereas the Science of Pathology is at present regarded as one.of
the most important branches of Medical Science, and, whereas instruction
in Pathology should be largely given as laboratory work, and whereas the
Department of Medicine and Surgery is greatly deficient in this branch,
Resolved, that this Faculty earnestly petition the Board of Regents to
establish and fill a chair of Pathology during the present school year."
Also the following resolution:
" Moved, that the Faculty ask the Board of Regents to 'appoint Dr
Heneage Gibbes of Westminster College, London, England, as Professor of
Pathology."
The following resolution in regard to the appointment of an
Instructor in Materia Medica was passed:
" Moved, that the Faculty recommend Dr. Conrad George for appointment as Instructor in Materia Medica for one year at a salary of $500."
At a meeting of the Faculty held Monday, Oct. 10th, the
following resolution was unanimously passed:
"To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: Believing that the Science and Art of Medicine in its
present and prospective expansion, with the many specialties into which.
it tends to be divided, requires a much longer period of study and of college
and hospital instruction than is provided for by the common medical
schools of this country, and that even the extended course of instruction
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery of this University would, i
practicable, be improved by its extension to four years of nine months instead of three years as now, thus bringing it nearer to the standard of the
most advanced medical schools of Europe, we therefore respectfully request the Honorable Board of Regents to enquire into the possibility and
expediency of providing for a course of instruction of another year, to be
devoted chiefly to Clinical Specialties after the full three years course as
now established with its work and honors is completed. In this connection
we respectfully call attention to an inquiry into the facilities which may be
made available for this purpose in Harper Hospital, and other institutions




OCTOBER fMEETING, 188'7.


173


in the neighboring city of Detroit, with the view of utilizing these facilities
at an early date if it is deemed advisable."
Yours very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL, M. D.,
Secretary of the Medical Faculty.
The above communication was discussed by Dr.
Palmer and Dr. Herdman before the Board, after which
Regent Grosvenor moved that the matter be laid on the
table for the present. It was so ordered.
The President submitted the following report of the
Executive Committee:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 13, 1887. 
The Executive Committee respectfully beg leave to report
as follows:
At the July Meeting of the Board (see Proceedings p. 141),
this Committee were "authorized to select and appoint an
Assistant Professor of English and Rhetoric in place of Professor
B. C. Burt, resigned."
After careful inquiry the Cornmittee,on August 15, appointed
to the place Charles M. Gayley, A. B., who for several years has
been in the service of the University, first as Instructor and afterwards as Acting Assistant Professor of Latin. The salary was
fixed at $1600. Mr. Gayley, who was in Europe pursuing his
studies, has returned, accepted the position, and entered upon
his duties.
At the same meeting (Proceedings, p. 144) the Board voted
to establish an Instructorship of Hygiene and Physiological
Chemistry, and authorized this Committee to fill the office.
On July 9th, the Committee appointed Fred G. Novy, M. S.
at the usual salary, $900 for one year. Mr. Novy was last year
Assistant in Organic Chemistry.
Very Respectfully,
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
E. O. GROSVENOR.
The report of the Executive Committee was accepted
and adopted by the following vote:




174


OCTOBER PMEETING, 1887.


Ayes.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Clark, Willett,
Field, and Whitman.
IVays. -None.
Regent Shearer, Chairman of Committee on Buildings and Grounds, made the following report which was
adopted.
Oct. 13, 1887.
The Hon. Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: The Committee on Buildings and Grounds to
whom were referred at the June meeting, all matters connected
with the designs, contracts, building operations, etc., for the new
Boiler House, and for the Forge and Foundry rooms, would
report:
That they procured designs from Gordon W. Lloyd, Architect, of Detroit, advertised for proposals as hats been usual, and
received two offers for each building, as follows, viz.: For the
Boiler House,
From Wm. Biggs, to build complete ------- ------      10,148
" Dan'l J. Ross  "            --------------  ---   7400
And for the Forge and Foundry rooms,
From Wmi. Biggs, to build complete --- —------       $15,007
"   an'l J. Ross               - - ------------------- 11,639
The contracts for both of the above named buildings were
awarded to Daniel J. Ross, at his offers above mentioned.
At the meeting of July 9th last, the Board referred the
building of an,Anatomical Laboratory to the same Committee,
under the conditions above mentioned for the Boiler House and
Forge and Foundry Building.
Your Committee procured the design from the same party,
and advertised for proposals in the same manner as for the first
above named buildings, and in due time received two proposals
as follows, for the building complete of the Anatomical Laboratory, viz.:
From Dan'l J. Ross for _ --- —--— $6 --- —------        6,471
"       Wm. Biggs  " ---— __ __ ____ ____ --- —- ---------- 5, 987
The contract was awarded to Wm. Biggs at the amount of
his offer.
The contracts for the three within named buildings were
signed by the President and Secretary of the Board of Regents,
and the several contractors in due form, and provided that said




OCTOBER M.IEETI1NG, 1887,


175


buildings should be completed on or before the dates following,
for the several buildings, viz.; The new Boiler House, Oct. 1,1887,
The Forge and Foundry Building, Jan. 1, 1888; and the Anatomical Laboratory, Oct. 1, 1887.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES SHEARER, Chairman.
On motion of Reoent Blair the BoariJ adjourned to 8:30
o'clock tomorrow morning.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 8:30 o'clock A. M. Full
Board present.
Regent Willett presented the following communication from the Librarian.
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 13, 1887.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The officers charged with the care of the Libraries are
agreed as to the division of the Legislative appropriation of
$5,000 for the purchase of books for the year 1888.
They respectfully reconmmend that the amount be applied
as follows:
For the General Library —, ----   -----------
La i Law    "   ---------    ------— 1,000
M " Medical  "  ___     -  ----    ----------      500
For the Conimmittees on the respective Libraries,
IR. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
On motion of Regent Willett the recommendation of
the Librarian with reference to the division of the money
appropriated by the Legislature for the purchase of Books
for the year 1888 was adopted by the following vote:
A}es.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays.-None.
The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, made
the following report through their Chairman, Regent
Shearer.




176


OCTOBER LMEETING, 1887.


Oct. 13, 1887.
The Hon. Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: The Committee on Buildings and Grounds, to
whom was referred (at the Meeting of July 9th last) the duty of
procuring designs, and all matters connected with the building
operations for a Laboratory for the Departments of Physics and
Hygiene, would report, that they accepted the design from
Messrs. Pond and Pond of Chicago, who had consulted with
Professors Carhart and Vaughan as to the planning of rooms,
and interior conveniences.
Proposals were advertised for in the usual manner, and on
the 29th of August offers were received by your Committee, as
follows, viz.:
From  Bartlett and Hardy for _ --- —---- -—.  ---—. --- —------  $27,384 00
' William Biggs   ' _ --- —--------— 27 266 56
*' Dan' J. Ross  "( -— __ ----     ------          26,793 99
All ofthe above parties made offers on several modes of
doing portions of the work,
But the award was made on the offer of the several parties on
the same specifications. Dan'l J. Ross being the lowest bidder,
was awarded the contract which has been duly signed by the
President and Secretary of the Board of Regents, and by Dan'l
J. Ross, as contractor. The building is contracted to be completed on or before July 1st, 1888.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES SHEARER, Chairman.
On motion of Regent Clark the report of the Committee on Buildings and     Grounds was accepted     and
adopted.
Regent Clark presented and read the following communication from the Librarian.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, Oct. 13, 1887. 
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
A short time ago Professor V. C. Vaughan of the Medical
Department wished to use a certain book that is possessed by
the Library of the Surgeon General's Office at Washington. A
communication addressed to the Surgeon General in regard to
loans from that Library was answered by a printed copy of the
conditions of loan, which is inserted here.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


177


CONDITIONS OF LOAN.
"Books will be lent upon request of the librarian of a public
library or university, that officer being held responsible for the
safe return of the volumes within two weeks from the day of their
receipt. Packages must be sent and returned by express, carefully packed, and the charges, both ways, must be paid by the
borrower.
Where there is no public library through which the application can be made, books will be lent directly to the individual
upon his remitting to the librarian of this library a sum of money
sufficient to cover their value in case of loss or injury.
Certain valuable or rare books will not be permitted to leave
the library."
In a written communication forwarded at the samte time,
the Surgeon General further states that books will not be loaned
on the request of librarians of public libraries, or universities,
until the Board of Trustees, or Governing Board, has authorized
the librarian to borrow them and has made the library responsible for them, and this authorization has been filed in the Surgeon General's Office.
I present this matter at this time at the request of Dr.
Vaughan, who prefers that the Library should be the medium
of this loan, and any future loans that he or others might wish
to obtain from the Washington Library.
The letter of the Surgeon General on the subject is herewith
submitted, with other papers relating to the matter; and the
desire is expressed that the Board will, in authorizing the librarian to borrow books, as contemplated, also state what security
for the library, if any, the librarian, or other officer, shall exact
from the Professor for whose accommodation the responsibility
of borrowing is assumed.
Very respectfully,
R. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
Regent Clark submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Librarian be and is hereby authorized
to borrow with consequent liability from the Surgeon General's
Office such works as may be desired by members of the Faculty
aud allow them the use of the same under the usual rules.
Adopted.
3




178


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


Regent Grosvenor, Chairman of the Finance Committee made the following report of the condition of the
Finances:
To the Board of Regents:
The Finance Cornmmittee herewith present the Treasurer's
statement of receipts and disbursements for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1887, and their estimate of receipts and expenditures for the year ending September 30, 1888.
The books and vouchers of the Treasurer and of the Steward
have been examined in minute detail and the items included in
the Treasurer's report have been carefully verified and found
correct.
The net cash balance in the Treasury at the close of the year
is $21,929.09. But it appears by the Treasurer's report that a balance of $38,029.69 stands to the credit of special funds, which
must be used for the purposes for which the appropriations were
made; that three of the special funds are overdrawn $1,221.54;
and that the general fund, on which the Regents have to depend
to meet current expenses, is overdrawn $14,879.06.
During the year to come large expenditures will have to be
incurred. Several buildings are in process of construction, for
which provision was made by the liberality of the legislature.
But no provision was made for the Anatomical Laboratory, and
the cost of this building must be defrayed from the general fund,
and remain charged to that fund, until a reimbursement is obtained from the State. The estimated cost of this building is
between seven and eight thousand dollars.
The general fund will also have to bear the additional cost
of heating, lighting, and caring for the new buildings, and will
also have to carry the burden of all additions to current expenses
caused by the enlargement of the work of the University.
It is anticipated also that within the year additions and
improvements, costing at least $3,000.00, must be made to the
Dental College.
The estimate of $148,000.00 for salaries is no larger than is
needed to meet engagements already entered into. No provision has been made in this estimate for additions to the teaching
force, nor for any increase of salaries beyond what has already
been voted.
By the exercise of close economy on the part of the Board




OCTOBER MEETING, 1837.


179


of Regents, supported by a continuance of the praiseworthy
watchfulness over all expenditures, that has been maintained by
the Auditing Board, it is expected that the expenses of the
University for the year to come may be kept within its income;
but, as in previous years, the condition of the finances warns us
against all outlays except such as are needed to meet the most
pressing wants, that have not been provided for by special appropriations of the legislature.
All.of which is respectfully submitted.
E. O. GROSVENOR, Chairman.
C. J. WILLETT,
MOSES W. FIELD.
ESTIMATE     OF  RECEIPTS AND       DISBURSEMENTS        FOR
THE YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30th, 1888.
ESTIMATED RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1, 1,887 _ --- —------ -------— __ ---  21,929 09
To be received from the State on the following accounts:
University Interest --- —--------— $ 38,000 00
1-20 Mill Tax   ----------   -     ---    47,272 50
Homceopathic Department   ----------      12,400 00
University Hospital  _ _- _ --- —-         5,000 G0
College of Dental Surgery -----  --        8 000 00
Scientific Laboratories --------------    25,000 00
Contingent              -------------------  6,250 t
Books for Library  -   -----          -   10,000 00
Physical Apparatus    ---------------      2,000 00
Forge and Foundry ----  _ ------ ---       4,250 00
Machinery for Engineering Laboratory ------  6,750 00
Additional Salaries _ --- —-   ----     -   5,000 00
Repairs      -------------------           5,000 00
-— $174,922 50
To be received frotm other sources as follows:
Students' Fees and Laboratory Deposits _ --- —  $ 70,000 00
Sale of Dental Supplies ------— _          3,000 00
Sale of Anatomical Material - ---      -    400 00
Sales at University Hospial --- —-------     700 00
Sales at Homoeopathic Hospilal ----------   300 00
Matron of University Hospital  _ ---- --     700 00
Interest on Bank Deposits ---— _ --- __     1,000 CO 76,100 00
$272,951 59
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMI ENTS.
For Salaries of Professors, Officers, and Employees-__ —__. 148 000 00
' Alterations and Repairs  ----   ------       7,000 00
Fuel and Lights --------------------         12,000 00
Current Expenses of General Library -------    400 00,           "... k-Medical  "  _ --- —  50 00,,,<    "      " Law           _ ------— _ - _  50 00




180              OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.
" Grounds --- —----                              500 00
" Postage ----------- ---------— _ __            8 0 00
Insurance --- —------                           500 00
"Calendar, Regents' Proceedings, and Miscellaneous
Printing --     _____ ---- __   _ --- —   2,000 00
' Current Expenses of Museum_ _-_ --- —    _     300 00
Supplies for Chemical Laboratory ---- ______   7,000 00
"" - "     Botanical   "     ------------      300 00
"    4"   ' Histological  "   ----------        400 00
'C    t   " Physiological     ------ -   ---    300 00
'    "c   " Engineering "     ------            600 00
>   — "  "< Microscopical"        ---------     200 00
"    "(   k' "Physical  " --- —-----             400 00
"    "(  '" Zoological             ---------    300 00
"       "c General Chemistry -------    -     600 00
Current Expenses in the Engineering Department_  400 00
"        "t  "   " " Astronomical Observatory   300 00
"Anatomical Material - ------— 2,500 00
Advertising Literary Department  -----    -    300 00
("     "    Medical    "'     ---       -----   200 00
L" Law                         -------  --    200 00
"     ".    School of Pharmacy   ---      -     200 00
" Transportation of Rogers Collection _ ------  2,000 00
"Lease of Water Privilege -__ -------    -      125 00
"Purchase and Filling of Diplomas ---------     650 00
"C Commencement Exercises _  ------------      1,200 00
Taxes on Lots in Springwells_ _ --- —-          100 00
"Purchase of Dental Supplies  -----------      2,5)0 00
Completion of Anatomical Laboratory _ --- —---  5,000 00
Current Expenses of University Hospital ___ --- —--  3,500 00, "          '    " "  HHomceopathic Departml entl-  4,000 00
6,,,    '.   ' College of Dental Surgery -— _  2,000 00
" Purchase of Books for Library  _ --- —------  10,000 00
(   "    " Physical Apparatus   ---------     4,000 00
"Completion of Scientific Labooratories ------— __   34,000 00
"     " "    t "Forge and Foundry —   ------   6,250 00
"Machinery for Engineering Laboratory _-  -    6,75) (JO
c Vault for Chemicals ---------------- --       400 00
Contingent Expenses not included above -.._ ----.. 2,000 00
" Estimated Balance on Hand September 30,1888-_,__  2,676 59
-----   272,951 59
TREASURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee of the Board of Regents, University of Mlichigan:
GENTLEMEN-Herewith I submit a statement of the receipts and disbursements of this office for aud during the fiscal year ending September
30th, 1887.                Respectfully,
H. SOULE, Treasurer.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


181


RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury October 1st, 1886 ___.. --- —From State Treasurer, account of Current Expenses_-$
("   "     "      "    " Special  "
" Goethe Fund, Donations ---- -,..... --- ——." Earnings of the University _ _ --- —--
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid General Fund accounts -----—, —$-__ --- —-  $
" Special  "     "       -    -  --- ___
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 ------


$  17,173 71
82,487 76
66.165 94
1,318 00
60,641 74 210,613 44
$ 227,587 15
150,232 92
55,625 14 205,858 06
21,929 09
$ 227,787 15


The following classified and detailed statements exhibit the condition
of the several funds:


GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
From State Treasurer, account of 1-20 Mill Tax ---- $
r"   "      ("     "    "Interest Fund --— _
(t  " " "         "    " *tChinese Exhibit ---
" First National Bank of Ann Arbor, Interest -----
" University Hospital, Sale of Material --- —— _
" Homceopathic ".   "       -----
" Dental Operating Room, Sale of Material __ --- —
" Insurance on Laboratory Supplies ----- _ —_."."..     Building ------
" Bequest from the Estate of Mary Porter ----— __
" Miscellaneous Sources __-.  _ -----
" Students' Fees, Medical —  _ --- —----— _
"     '      "   Literary   _    _ _ --- —--..    (      "   Law ---------------------
"     "        "  Dental  --------
"     "      "  Mecihanical Laboratory -_ --- —
"'   "t     '"   Physiology__     ____ 
t"    "      "   Pharmacy_     ____ --- —--
"L    "      L"  Homoeopath ic ----     ----.".. "           General Chemistry -----— __
"t    "      " (  Practical Anatomy — _ ---"t~     " ' Microscopy ----    ---
"      ("  Histology -------------
"     "      f." A. and A. Chemistry ----
tt'(            Botany -------— _  _-__
6"    (      "t  Zoology-,, __ _ ---
"   "r      "  Diplomas    --------— ___..          "   Key Deposits --- ------
Students' Fees Received___ _. --- —------
"      " Refunded ------
Net -.. ----, --- —- $ --- —




43,886 25
38,601 51
1,792 93
1,093 68
1,118 81
399 66
3,550 55
1,729 07
500 00
500 00
1,349 46
94,521 92
6,065 00
16,985 00
5,890 00
1,620 00
368 00
15 00
1 520 00
1,785 00
224 00
2,270 00
201 00
638 00
8,245 51
51 00
63 00
4,216 00
244 00
50,400 51
50,40() 51
3,354 30
47,046 21  144,922 43




182              OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.
Balance Overdrawn Sept. 30th, 1887 ------- ----            14,879 06
$ 159,801 49
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND.
Balance Overdrawn October 1st, 1S86___ __ --- —----  $  9,568 57
General Pay Roll, Salaries of Officers and Employees_  120,545 84
Vouchers Paid, account of Students' Fees Refunded — _  3 354 30
("    "     ".    F' Fuel and Lights --- —-    8,122 82
'    "     "    ". General Library ------    347 37.. ". ". Advertising, Medical -— __  118 76
'    <'    "    (6 "  "      Pharmacy_ —__     96 15.. ".. "      '.     Law --- —-----    137 F3
"         ".. iPostage _ ------    -      803 25
c"  '*  "t   " Insurance _-___ --- —--     1,166 00
(     A     A    "Museum —         -----------  241 50
"     ".. " Chemical Laboratory ------  4,482 63
"     t"   "l Botanical         -  ---    166 20
1"    "     "    I" Microscopical     _ —        25 79
"     " ".     " Zoological   "       -       249 34
t".       "    " Physical    -" —             106 40
"t       " "     " Physiological      -------    91 95
".  "    ".1 Histological  "   __ —      92 25
"     "        L. " Mechanical  "     -       674 21
"    "9    "    " General Chemistry _ --- —-   469 92
t     "         "    " Anatomy -----   ------  1,578 35
~'    "     "    " Dental Operating Room ---    2, 75 32
("  "(      "    "' Astronomical Observatory_-   32 80
'i    "     "    c" Advertising and Printing_   814 12
"        - "    " "  IUniversity Calendar _ --- —_   879 65
*  "  "    <" Anatomical Laboratory ----  3,298 77
"    "    ".   L Surveying -------— _        2i1 37
---— $ 159,801 49
SPECIAL FUNDS.
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886- _ --- — --      6,000 00
From State Treasurer _ --- —- -----  -------.   6,000 00  12,000 00
Disbursements.
Salarlies of Professors and Employees ----------  8,390 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -----              -    1,624 58
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887________ --- —-- -  1,985 42  12.000 00
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886 _ — ___ --- —            1,378 37
Disbursements.
Salaries of Professors and Employees- _ ---          550 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses ---- _ ----         -    828 37  1,378 37




OCTOBER MIEETING, 1887.                     183
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886 --- ----  -     2,812 65
From State Treasurer ----.... — --------—.___   5,000 00  7,812 65
Disbursements.
Salaries of Surgeon and Employees ----  ----      1,900 00
Paid Vouchers for Expenses_ _ - _        ___ --- —  2,787 88
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 --- —---— __-  3,124 77  7,812 65
REPAIRS AND CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 18 86- ---— __ —   10,373 95  10,373 96
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses _ --- —-_ —  ______    10,373 95  10,373 95
GENERAL LIBRARY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886 _ --- —---— _   3,303 27  3,303 27
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -----------— _ _3,193 54
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 ----------   109 73  3,303 27
PHYSIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886 - _  _  _ — _   194 43   194 43
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses   --------------         37 31
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 ----------    157 12   194 43
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. lst, 1886 --- —- ---      3,884 93
From State Treasurer_,  -   ---   __.. --- —-----  8,000 00  11,884 93
Disbursements.
Salaries of Professors and Employees - ____ --- —-   7,250 00
Paid Vouchers tor Expenses __ ----___ _ ----   -     670 47
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 -.. ------   3,964 46  11,884 93
ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1886 _- - _          771 69
Balance Overdrawn Sept. 30th, 1887-__ ____ ____ --- —   953 42  1,725 11
Disbursements.


Paid Vouchers for Expenses.


1,725 11   1,725 11




184              OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.
ASSISTANT IN ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer -     _____ --- —-----------  1,000 00  1,000 00
Disbursements.
Salary of Assistant     ------------        -    1,000 00 1,000 00
GOETHE FUND.
Receipts.
From Contributions --------                      1,318 00  1,318 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -—. —__ --- —---- __   654 83
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 _-_________ --- —-— _  663 17  1,318 00
CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn Sept. 30th, 1887 -------— _ ___ -   264 12  264 12
Disbursements,
Paid Vouchers for Expenses __ --- —---   -----     264 12   264 12
REPAIRS.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer ---------                   5,000 00  5,000 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses -  --------------     3,163 38
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887___ ----------- ----  1,836 62  5,000 00
PHYSICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer -   _ _ --- —----— _ — _2,000 00      2,000 00
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses _ --- —--—._-__ __ --- —— _  45 90
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887  ___ --- —---  1,954 10  2,000 00
REMOVAL OF THE ROGERS GIFTS.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer ----- -   ----------— __-   1,973 01
Balance Overdrawn Sept. 30th, 1887 --- —--------     4 00  1,977 01
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn Oct. 1st, 1886 — ___ --- — --   1,977 01  1,977 01
CHINESE EXHIBIT.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer --- —-----------             1,792 93  1,792 93
Disbursements.
Transfer from General Fund acc't Vouchers paid in 1886  1,792 93  1,792 93




OCTOBER IMEETING, 1887.
CHEMICAL VAULT.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer _-__. --- —-      -...
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 --— _-_ —,
BOILER HOUSE.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer. ---  -----— ___-_ _ ---_..
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses _  _______ --- —---
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1.87 --- — --------
SCIENTIFIC LABORATORIES.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer ---------------— _______
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses — ___ --- —-----
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 - -----------
ADDITIONAL SALARIES.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer.__,______ --- —---
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1887 -----
FORGE AND FOUNDRY.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer___      ___ --- —---------
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses — ____ --- —- _______
Balance in Treasury Sept. 30th, 1837 —._______ —_
The balances in the Treasury September 30th, 1887, are
SPECIAL FUNDS.
Homceopathic Medical College --- —__ __ --- —__
University Hospital _ —__.. ----__. --- —--—.General Library --------       ---
Physiological Laboratory --- __  ___ --- —-_,_-_,-__
College of l)ental Surgery —_  ____ --- — __ —__
Goethe Fund ----   _ -----— __ __  -_____ —_
Repairs ___-    __      __
Physical Laboratory — _ _______- ___________
Chemical Vault -       ------- -_ —_    _ ___
Boiler House ----— _         --— __

185
400 00     400 00
400 00     400 00


15,000 00  It
7,060 64
7,939 36  11
10,000 00  1(
1,113 80
8,886 20  1(
5,000 00
5,000 00
5,000 00
2,991 26
2,008 74
as follows:
1,985 42
3,124 77
109 73
157 12
3.934 46
663 17
1,836 62
1,934 10
400 00
7,939 36


i,0()0 00
5,000 00
),000 00
1,000 00
5,000 00
5,000 00
5,000 00
5,000 00




186


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


Scientific Laboratories -----— _ _ --- —----  8,886 20
Additional Salaries -------------------- _ _  5.000 00
Forge and Foundry_ -— __  ___ ----__ _- __ _ — -  2,008 71
_-  38,029 69
Less Removal of Rogers Gifts, Overdrawn  ------ 4 00
" Engineering Laboratory  "   ___ ---    953 42
" Contingent Account  -"   _   --- ---- 261 12 1,221 54
$ 36,808 15
GENERAL FUND.
Overdrawn _  _ _ --- —-- -- ----                14,879 06
Net Balance    __ --- —----------     $ 21,929 09
On motion of Regent Field the report of the Finance
Committee was adopted.
Regent Blair submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That a special Committee of three be appointed
to consider the advisability of establishing a chair of Pathology
in the University, and also to consider the request of the Medical
Faculty on post graduate work, and to report their conclusions
to the next meeting of the Board.
The resolution was adopted and     the  President
appointed Regents Blair, Draper, and Whitman as such
committee.
Regent Grosvenor moved that Doctor Conrad George
be appointed Instructor in Materia Medica for one year at
a salary of $500. The motion was carried by the following
vote:
Ayes.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Cark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays.-None.
Regent Clark   submitted the following resolution
which was adopted unanimously, and the secretary was
instructed to send a copy to all Professors in the University:
Resolved, That this Board disapproves of any discussion by
Instructors in the class or lecture room, or in the press, of
matters which are within the sole province of the Board.
Regent Grosvenor introduced the following resolulutions which were adopted by the unanimous vote of the
Board:




OCTOBER MEETIVNG, 1887.


187


Whereas, President Angell has been invited by the President of the United States to take part as one of the representatives of our government in negotiations with commissioners
from Great Britain on questions relating to the rights of fishery
on the coasts of British North America.
Therefore resolved, That leave of absence be granted to
President Angell for such time as may be necessary for the discharge of the duties to which he has been called.
Resolved, That Professor Henry S. Frieze be appointed Acting President to serve during any absence of President Angell's
in this service.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the salaries of James H. Wade, " Secretary
and Steward," and Raymond L. Davis " Librarian" be the same
as full Professors in the Literary Department, $2,200.
This resolution was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays.-None.
Regent Willett, Chairman of speeial committee on
salaries  gave  notice, that at the    next meeting    of
the Board his committee would report a general plan for
revising salaries, and then introduced the following resolution:
Resolved, That the salaries of Professors W. J. Herdman, V.
C. Vaughan, Charles S. Denison, J. C. Wood, Dan'l. A. Mc.
Lachlan and V. M. Spalding be fixed at $2,000, commencing
October 1st, 1887.
The resolution of Regent Willett was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes.-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays.-None.
Regent Clark moved that Assistant Professor Charles
N. Jones be appointed Professor of Applied Mathematics;
salary to be $2,200, and that the Executive Committee be




188


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


authorized to appoint an Instructor in Mathematics, if
found necessary.
The motion of Regent Clark was adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays -None.
The report of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds
changing the location of the building for Physics and Hygiene was adopted and ordered placed on file.
The Medical Committee, through their Chairman, Regent Grosvenor, made the following report which was
adopted.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen,-The Committee on Medical Department to
whom was referred the matter of the division of the $5,000 remaining of the Legislative appropriation for Scientific Laboratories, would report, that after discussing the matter fully with the
Professors most interested, it was decided to set apart $2,000 for
the Department of Hygiene (Prof. Vaughan), for that of Physiology, (Prof. Sewall), $2,000, and for that of Histology and Microscopy, (Prof. Stowell), the sum of $600, leaving as a reserve of
this fund $400, to be applied under the direction of the Board of
Auditors, for the use of any of the three Departments within
mentioned, as in their judgment seems best for the interests of
these Departments, collectively.
As the Department of Physics (Prof. Carhart) has for
its exclusive use the appropriation of $1,000 for its equipment,
your committee has not deemed it expedient to allot any portion
of the above named sum of $5,000 to that Department.
All of which is submitted,
E. O. GROSVENOR, 
C. S. DRAPER[.        MEDICAL COMMITTEE.
JAMES SHEARER.
Regent Clark presented and read the following communication from the Secretary of the Faculty of Literature, Science, and the Arts.




OCTOBER 3MEETING, 1887.


189


ANN ARBOR, MICH., Oct. 12th, 1887.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen,-I have the honor to inform you that the following persons, having completed all the requirements, were at
the last meeting of the Faculty recommended to your honorable
body for the degrees sought.
NELLIE BARTLETT HAIRE, for Bachelor of Arts.
GEORGE EDWARD FAIRBAIRN, for Bachelor of Philosophy.
LAURA DONNAN, for Master of Arts.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Secretary.
On motion of Regent Clark the Degrees indicated
were conferred upon the persons named in the above communication, in accordance with the recommendation of
the Faculty of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Clark presented and read the following communication from Prof. W. W. Beman:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Oct. 13, 1887.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
For a long time the Mathematical Department has made
no request for any sort of apparatus. Several years ago an appropriation of $500 was granted to secure a full set of Crelle's Journal, the leading mathematical journal of the world, but before
your action was made public, the same amount was put into
Prof. Olney's hands for the same purpose by E. C. Hegeler, Esq.,
of La Salle, Illinois. With characteristic generosity Prof. Olney
turned your appropriation over to the General Library, and it
was distributed among the various Departments.
Inasmuch then as the Mathematical Department received
no benefit from the only appropriation made for its exclusive
use, it would seem that its present wants should have more than
ordinary consideration.
Just now it stands in urgent need of a full collection of
models for teaching purposes,similar to those possessed by Johns
Hopkins University, Cornell University, Wellesley College, and
other institutions.
I would respectfully request your Honorable Body to place
$500, the same amount as the one previously appropriated, at




190


OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


the disposal of the Mathematical Faculty for the purchase of a
collection of models as specified.
WOOSTER W. BEMAN,
Professor of Mathematics.
Regent Clark moved that the sum of $500 be appropriated for the Mathematical Department for the purposes
named in the communication of Prof. Beman.
The appropriation was made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
NNays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the sum of $75 was appropriated for the purpose of purchasing skeletons for use
in the Zoological Laboratory, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field and Whitman.
Noys-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, F. A. Johnson, M. D.
was appointed Assistant to the chair of Surgery, and to
the chair of Ophthalmology and Otology in the Homoeopathic Medical College, in place of R. C. Taylor, M. D. resigned, at a salary of $203, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the resignation of D.
J. McGuire, Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology in
the Homoeopathic Medical College, was accepted.
The following communication from the Dean of the
Homoeopathic Medical College, was presented and read by
Regent Grosvenor:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Oct. 13, 1887.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
The Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College beg leave
to recommend the appointment of Dr. C. F. Sterling, of Detroit,
as Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology. In view of the




OCTOBER M~EETING, 1887.


191.


fact that the requirements of the clinical work of the chair are
exacting, and that the success of this school imperatively demands careful attention to the clinique, the Faculty earnestly
request that the salary of the chair be raised fronm $400 to $800 a
year.                    HI. L. OBETZ, M. D., Dean.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, C. F. Sterling, M. D.,
of Detroit, was appointed professor of Ophthalmology and
Otology, in the Homoeopathic Medical College, at a salary
of $600, by the following vote.
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Ncys-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, the sum of $500 was
appropriated from the Dantal College special fund, for the
purchase of Operating Chairs, and other appliances, for
use in that Department, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-None.
The Faculty of the Dental College having requested
the Board to purchase a collection of Anatomical specimens belonging to Dr. C. L. Ford, for use in the Dental
Department, Regent Grosvenor moved that the matter
be placed in the hands of Regent Draper to investigate
and report to the next meeting of the Board. Carried.
A communication was received from the Dean of the
Dental Faculty, setting forth the necessity of additional
assistance in the Mechanical and Clinical Departments of
the Dental College.
Regent Grosvenor moved that the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint two assistants in the Dental
Department, if found necessary, at salaries not exceeding
$800 each.
The motion of Regent Grosvenor was adopted, by the
following vote:




192


OCTOBER JIEETING, 1887.


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the Board adjourned
to 2:30. P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:30 p. m.
Regent Grosvenor submitted the following resolution
which was adopted:
WHEREAS, The method prescribed by resolution of this
Board of July 12, 1877, in regard to the University printing, has
proved inconvenient and unsatisfactory, therefore
Resolved, That such resolution of July 12, 1877, be and the
same is hereby repealed and that in future the Auditing Board
be and they are hereby authorized and directed to contract for
the University printing on such terms and in such manner as
shall be deemed most for the interest of the University.
Regent Grosvenor presented the resignation of Henry
K. Lumr, M. D., Assistant to the Professor of Physiology,
and moved its acceptance. Carried.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor, Elmer Sanford, B.
S., was appointed Assistant to the Professor of Physiology
at a salary of $400, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Charles K. McGee, Assistant in General Chemistry, was granted a leave of absence for one year from Oct. 1st, 1857, and Mr. George W.
Whyte was appointed Assistant in General Chemistry for
one year at a salary of $750. A call vote on Regent
Draper's motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-None.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.


193


The freshman class in General Chemistry being unusually large, Professor Langley asked the Board for some
additional assistance during the first semester. Regent
Draper moved that John F. Eastwood Ph. D., now Assistant in Organic Chemistry, be employed to aid the Professor of General Chemistry, and that he receive, in addition
to his present salary ($192), the sum of $150 for such service; and that his title be Assistant in Organic Chemistry
and Aid in General Chemistry.
Thle vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays —None.
The following commlunication from Professor. H.
Payne was read by Regent Whitman:
To JAMBES B. ANGELL, President of the University of Michigan:
I hereby resign my position as Professor of the Science and
the Art of Teaching, this resignation to take effect at the close of
the present semester.
Very respectfully,
W. H. PAYNE..ANN ARBOR, Mich., Oct. 5, 1887.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution
which was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That it is the sentiment of the Board that in the
resignation of Prof. W. H. Payne the University loses a valued
instructor and accomplished gentleman whose labors have been
of the highest service to the cause of education in the State; and
that it is witl sincere regret that his resignation from the position of Professor of the Science and the Art of Teaching, to take
effect at the close of the present semester, is accepted.
The following preamble and resolution introduced by
Regent Whitman, was adopted and ordered spread upon
the minutes:
WHEREAS, Regents Shearer and Grosvenor came to'their
duties upon this Board at a time of special difficulty; and
WHEREAS, During their term of service, the development
4




194


OCTOBER JIEETI:NG, 1887.


of this institution has been very great in all directions and the
consequent responsibilities heavy;and
WHEREAS, They have given to their duties much more
than [the usual attention;
We, therefore, deem it proper to express upon the records of
this Board our appreciation of their eminent services to the University and the State.
C. J. WILLETT,
ARTHUR M. CLARK,
MOSES W. FIELD,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
C. S. DRAPER,
AUSTIN BLAIR.
The following resolution submitted by Regent Draper
was adopted:
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be presented to
William E. Quimby, Esq., of Detroit, for his gift of the portrait
of Professor Frieze.
Regent Shearer submitted the following resolution
which received the unanimous endorsement of the Board:
B. F. Sturtevant, Esq., of Boston, Mass., having presented
to the University for use in the Engineering Laboratory, two
steel pressure blowers valued at over one hundred and twentyfive dollars ($125); therefore it is hereby
Resolved, That the President be requested to return the
thanks of the Board of Regents.for the same.
Regent Draper submitted the following:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to
confer with the owner of the Rominger Collection with a view
of securing the same for the University, and that the committee
be authorized to enter into a contract with the owner for the
paymenit to him of an annuity, equal to a fair interest upon the
value of the collection, reserving the right to discontinue such
annuity at any time and to acquire the ownership of the colleciinn by paymlent of such gross sum as may be agreed upon.
The votee on'te resolution of Regent Draper resulted
as follows:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1887.:195


Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitmal.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper moved that the Special Committee,
appointed to consider the question of establishing a Chair
of Pathology in the University, and the request of the
Medical Faculty on post graduate work, be relieved of so
much of the work assigned them, as relates to the Chair
of Pathology.
The motion carried.
Regent Draper submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That a Chair of Pathology be established in the
University, and that Dr. Heneage Gibbs, of London, England,
be employed as Professor of Pathology at a salary of $2,200.
A call vote was taken on this resolution which resulted
as follows:
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Ncays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark the Auditing Board were
authorized to pay M. S. Stewart, of Duluth, Minn., a sum
not exceeding $100 for specimens for the Museum.
Ayes-Regents Shearer, Grosvenor, Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, and Whitman.
Nays-No te.
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Special Committee
appointed at the last meeting of the Board to consider the
question of' removing the Medical Clinic to Detroit, made
the following report.
Your Committee appointed to consider the question of the
need of the Medical Department for greater clinical advantages,.etc., report:
That they visited Detroit and met the representatives of
Detroit Medical College and the Trustees of Harper Hospital.
Nothing definite was accomplished, however, for the reason that
the gentlemen whom we met had no proposition to make, nor




196


OCTOBER MEETING. 1s87.


were your Committee authorized to say what would be accept —
able to the University.
We were informed that the citizens of Detroit were anxious
that a Clinical Department of the University, or a post-graduate
Clinical School, as part of the University, should be established at
Detroit; that the citizens of Detroit, the Trustees of Harper's
Hospital, and the authorities of the Detroit Medical College,
would aid any effort which the Regents might make to give to
the University the clinical facilities which a considerable city
like Detroit furnished; but before they could say what they
would do for us, they must know what we required. In otherwords, if the Regents would advise then as to what would be
required from Detroit, they would at once reply whether they
could meet the demand. rThe impression ma(e upon the Committee is, that the persons in Detroit who are interested in the
matter are ready to meet us with generous hands in reference to
the matter in question.
C. S. DRAPER.
On motion of Regent Grosvenor the report of' the
Special Committee was adopted and the Committee discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
On motion of Regent Clark the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
FEBRUARY, 1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,      )
Friday, Feb. 17th, 1888. 
The Board of Regents convened in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock P. M.
Present-the President, Regents Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Absent-Regent Hebard.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Chair appointed
Regents Blair, Draper, and Clark, a committee to prepare
a recast of the standing committees of the Board of Regents, and present the same to the Board for their approval.
The following is the report of the above Committee
which, on motion of Regent Field, was adopted:
Executive Committee:-The President, Regents Blair, Whitman,
and Butterfield.
Finance Committee:-Regents Willett, Field, and Hebard.
Committee on Literary Department:-Regents Clark,Willett, and
Whitman.
Committee on Law Department:-Regents Blair, Willett, and
Draper.
Committee on Medical Department, Homoeopathic College, and
Dental College:-Regents Draper, Field, and Butterfield.
Library Committee:-Regents Willett, Blair, Field, and the
President.
Committee on Museum, School of Mines, and Astronomical Observatory:-Regents Blair, Clark, and Field.
Committee on Chemical and Pharmaceutical Department:-Regents Draper, Clark, and Whitman.
Committee on Buildings and Grounds:-Regents Whitman,
Draper, and Hebard.




198


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Field, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved.
The President stated, that as the new Committees
were now organized and ready for business, he would proceed to place in their hands such papers as had come into
his possession: for consideration by the Board.
The President presented and read the following report
of the Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows:
They met at the President's office on December 28th, 1887. They approved the plan, submitted by the Fuculty of the Department of Medicine
and Surgery, providing till the end of the semester for the instruction which
the late Dr. Palmer had given. It was as follows: Dr. Dunster, Dr, Herdman, and Dr. Vaughan, were each to give one lecture a week on the Practice
of Medicine; Dr. Herdman was to attend the Medical Clinic; and Dr.
Blanchard was to render such assistance as he had given to Dr. Palmer, and
was to receive one hundred dollars in full payment for his services from date
up to Feb. 17th, next.
The Committee voted also to call a special meeting of the Board for
Friday evening, Feb. 3.
The members of the Executive Committee have also approved, by correspondence with Acting President Frieze, the appointment of N. S. Hoff,
D. D. S., on January 1st, 1888, for the remaindea of the year, as
Assistant Professor in the College of Dental Surgery, at a salary
of $1,200 per annum, and of Mr. H. C. Raymond, for one year from Oct. 1.
1887, Assistant to the chair of Prosthetic Dentistry. in the same Department,
at a salary of $200 per annum. This arrangement has been substituted by
the unanimous recommendation of the Dental Faculty for the two Assistant
Professors, each at a salary of $800, previously agreed upon.
Also the appointment of Mr. J. F. McCulloch, from Nov. 1, as Instructor
in Mathematics, for the rest of the year, at $900 per annum.
Also the appointment of two additional night nurses for the hospital,
each to receive $150 per annum with board.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.
Regent Willett presented and read the following cominunication from Librarian Davis:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
I respectfully ask of you leave of absence from the University from
about the 15th of April, until Oct. 1st.
I have suffered considerably in health for the past two or three years,
and my physician thinks a longer absence from the confinement of the Library than I am accustomed to get, is necessary.
I also ask that my pay be continued, and that I be allowed to provide
for the additional help made necessary, at my own expense-my arrangements to be subject, of course, to the approval of the Library Committee.




SPECIAL AMEETING, 1888.


199


I will say in justification of my request, that I purpose to have the
work of the Library, except the routine work, practically done for the year,
before leaving. And I purpose, also, if my request is granted, to spend a
portion of the time at one of the great book producing centres, where I can
do very much to benefit the Library.
R. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, February 17, 1888.
On motion, the request of Librarian R. C. Davis was
granted on the conditions stated in his communication, by
the full vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Willett, the By-Laws of the University were amended to conform to the State law, requiring the fiscal year of all State institutions to close on the
30th day of June. [This changes the word October to
June in Chap. V., Section 9, line 3, of the By-Laws.]
The following communication was read by Regent
Draper:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Jan. 2, 1888.
President James B. Angell,
Dear Sir:-I hereby tender my resignation as Assistant to
the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children,
and of Theory and Practice of Medicine, to take effect March
1st, 1888, or as soon as my successor may be appointed.
Most respectfully,
S. G. MILNER.
On motion of Regent Draper the resignation of Dr.
S. G. Milner was accepted.
Regent Draper moved that the following appointments be made in the Homoeopathic Medical College, as
recommended by the Faculty:
Sara B. Armstrong, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of
Theory and Practice of Medicine, and Harriet M. Allen,
M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children; each at a salary of $100
per year.
The motion of Regent Draper was carried by the following vote:
Ayes.-Regent Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays. —None.




200


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Draper the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Sarah Idelia Leein accordance with the recommendation of the Iomnoeopathic Medical Faculty.
Regent Blair presented the following memorial which
was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Board, and the
Secretary was directed to spread the same upon the
records of the Board, and to send a copy to the family of
the deceased.
Intelligence having been received of the death, on the 30th
of January last, of Asa Gray, LL. D., first professor in this University, and afterwards Fisher Professor of Natural History in
Harvard University, the Board of Regents in view of the services rendered to this institution by Dr. Gray, in the judicious
selection of books for its library and in other ways, during the
period of his professorship here, desire to place on record such
an expression of respect and honor as is due to his memory.
Without attempting to recount his many contributions to
the stock of human knowledge during his long life of tireless
activity in the exposition of scientific truth, or to estimate the influence exerted by his profound knowledge and philosophical
acuteness, not only in his special department but also in the
discussion of those more difficult problems to which he so wisely
and generously contributed, we may be permitted, in common
with the wide circle that mourns his loss, to add our voice in
honor of this great leader in the intellectual development of
the period in which he lived.
Especially do we recall with grateful appreciation his reverent love of truth in every form, his broadly catholic spirit,
and the kindly helpfulness long to be remembered by so many
who have looked to him as master and friend. We lament his
unfinished work, but rejoice that such a man has lived, and we
wish to be numbered with those who sincerely mourn his loss
and rise up to honor his memory.
To his family and friends we extend our deepest sympathy
in this hour of their heavy affliction.
On motion of Regent Draper, the salary of Dr. J. N.
Martin, Lecturer in the Dental College, was increased to
$500.
Regent Draper presented the request of the Medical




SPECIAL MEETLNG, 1888.


201


Faculty, that Prof. Chas. H. Stowell's salary be increased
to $2,000.  The request was referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Board went into
Executive Session.
On motion of Regent (lark, B. A. Hinsdale, Ph.D.,
was appointed Professor of the Science and Art of Teaching, at the salary of $2,200, by the following vote:
Ayes -Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays.-None.
Regent Willett, chairman of special committee on
salaries, made the following report:
The special committee to which was referred the subject of
the re-adjustment of salaries in the Literary Department, respectfully report that, having given the matter careful consideration, they have found it surrounded by many difficulties, chief
of which is the money question. The past ten years has been a
period of special development of the University in all its developments. This has been obtained by changes in the method of
instruction, by widening out the course of study, and by such
other means as as have seemed wise in order to keep our institution in the front rank of American Colleges. During this period
also, the liberality of the legislature has added largely to the
buildings upon the grounds, and each new building creates an
annual expense. The extension of the course of study, and the
change in the method of instruction from the merely didactic to
the experimental, have called for a large increase in teaching
force. The result of this advance in methods, etc., upon the
pay-roll has been to increase it very largely; from $86,000, using
round numbers, in 1878, to $158,000, in 1883, or an increase of
$72,000. During the same period the stated income of the University has been enlarged, as follows: In students' fees, from
$47,000 to $70,000, in the 1-20 mill tax, from $31,000 to $47,000, or
a total increase of $39,000. Special appropriation, made from
session to session of the legislature, have in the past, helped
somewhat. An examination of the pay-roll as it exists now,
and its comparison with that of ten years ago, will disclose the
fact that the greater proportions of the present are dueto two
causes; Ist., the increase in force, being fromn 64 in 1878 to 137, in
1888; 2nd, the advance in rank and pay of instructors and
assistant professors. No doubt, the peculiar situation of our
institution, of which we are all so proud, as a leader in educational methods, has compelled, in a measure, the condition of
affairs as stated. It would seem, however, that the time had now
arrived to advance somewhat the pay of those who have given
their best years to the work on this Campus as full professors.
We would gladly urge liberal things all along the line, and in
this way, avoid difficulties which we do not wish to discuss in
this report, but our financial condition, which we have endeavored to set forth, in brief, will not permit it.




202


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


We recommend: First, that from and after the 1st day of
October next, the annual salary of Prof. Frieze shall be the sum
of $2,800.
Second, that the an nual salary of Treasurer Soule be the sum
of $2,200.
Third, that from and after the date last above mentioned,
there shall be added to the pay of those professors in the
Literary Department who have the full rank and pay, ($2.200),
the sum of $100 for each five years of such service and pay in
this or any other college, until the sum of $2,500 is reached,
which shall constitute a maximum salary, save as stated above.
And the date from which to compute the five year period shall
in all cases be the 1st day of October after appointment to the
full rank and pay ($2,200) of a professor.  This provision for increase shall not apply to the professor of Astronomy, as he is allowed, in addition to his salary, the use of house and grounds.
Fourth, that no personal applications for increase in pay, or
change of rank be received by the board, but that such changes
as are thought wise shall be suggested in writing by the President and referred to the proper Standing Committee.
C. J. WILLETT,         I
CHAS. R. WHITMAN, i COMMITTEE.
ARTHUR M. CLARK,)
The report of the Special Committe on salaries was
adopted by the following vote:
Ayes.-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays.-None.
The following communication was read by Regent
Clark:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, Feb. 15, 188.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-Having been elected to the position of Astronomer in
the Lick Observatory, of the University of California, I feel called upon to
sever my official connection with the University of Michigan at the close
of the present college year.
I desire in this place to thank the various officers of the University,
and in particular President Angell and Professor Harrington, for the many
tokens of good will.
That the University may ever continue to grow in power and usefulness is the sincere wish of her alumnus.
Your obedient servant,
J. M. SCHAEBERLE.
On motion of Regent Clark, the resignation of J. M.
Schaeberle was accepted.
On motion of Regent Clark, the thanks of the Board
were tendered to the following donors of valuable gifts to
the University:   A. L. Colton; for twenty-four Views of
the University buildings and grounds. Middlebrook Ele



SPECIAL M1PEETI.YNG, 1888.


o20


Vator Mfg. Co., Detroit; for a No. 3 Aquapult Steam
Pump. Defiance Machine Works, Defiance, 0.; for a
Pully   Balancing Machine.       E. Harrington, Son &      Co.,
Philadelphia; for a 3,000 lb. Screw Hoist for the Foundry.
Pemberthy Injector Co., Detroit; for a Sectional Model
of an Injector.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Degree of Doctor of
Philosophy was conferred upon Mary Emilie Holmes, in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of
the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Clark presented the following communication
from Prof. J. W. Langley:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, Feb. 17, 1888.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.-I have been in continuous service at this University for
nearly thirteen years, during the first two of which I did virtually the work
of two men in two chairs.
The result is that for some time past I have greatly felt the need of
change and a rest from teaching, but have not seen my way clear to secure
it.
Recently I have been asked to head an important scientific and technical mission in Europe, and, since this will give me the change desired,
and also put in my way very unusual facilities for metallurgical study,
which, I think, will increase my abilities as an officer of instruction on my
return, I hereby ask for a leave of absence for one year from the first of
October next.
Owing to the necessary absence of President Angell, I have not been
able to consult with him fully in regard to nominating a temporary suec
cessor to my chair; I therefore refrain here from mentioning any name, but
I have gathered a list of several persons who may be available, and therefore I beg that, if you grant my request, you will do so definitely at the present meeting, and leave the selection of my successor to the President and
the Executive Committee.
I have a further request to make, which is not a necessary part of the
above.
I should greatly prefer to have the leave of absence date from the first
of next April, but recognizing that my leaving at that time might embar.
rass the instruction in my department, I am ready to remain to the end of
the college year, even at the expense of much personal inconvenience and
loss.
I now request that you empower the President and Executive Committee to confirm my leave of absence from April first next,provided, that
they can find a suitable substitute for the remainder of the present (2nd)
semester. This request is based strictly on the above condition.
Respectfully yours,
JOHN W. LANGLEY,
Prof. Gen. Chemistry,




204          SPECIAL 3MEETING, 1888.
On motion of Regent Clark, the request of Professor
Langley was granted, provided that no additional expense
shall be incurred in providing for his work.
On motion of Regent Field, Dr. Henry F. Lyster was
appointed to the chair of Theory and Practice of Medicine and Clinical Medicine in the Medical Department of
the University, at the regular salary in that department,
($2,000. See Regents' Proceedings for 1887, page 125,) by
the following vote:
Ayes.-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Field, Whitman, and
Butterfield.
Regent Willett was excused from voting.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
MARGH, 1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
TUESDAY, MARCH 27th, 1888. 
The Board of Regents convened in regular session in
the room   of the President at 8 o'clock p. m.       The President in the chair.
In the absence of the Secretary, Treasurer Soule was
made Secretary pro tent.
Present-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman,
Butterfield and Hebard.
Absent-Regents Field and Blair.
The President read from       the scriptures and offered
prayer.
The President read the report of the Executive Committee   as to their action since the last meeting of the
Board as follows:
In accordance with authority conferred upon them by the Board, on
Oct. 13th, 1887, (see Regents' Proceedings for 1887, page 194), they have entered
into a contract with Dr. Rominger, by which, on payment semi-annually of
one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125) from January 1st, 1888, by the
University to Dr. Rominger, the latter binds himself to keep his palaeontological collection in the University Museum; and not to sell it without giving us one year's notice. The University may at any time terminate the leasing of the collection and may purchase the collection at any time for a sum
not exceeding five thousand dollars.
Professor Cheever having died suddenly on March 6th, it became
necessary to provide at once for instruction in the branches which he had
taught, Quantitative Analysis and Metallurgy. The Committee decided
to ask Mr. Geo. W. Whyte, assistant of Professor Langley, to give instruction
in Metallurgy for the rest of the year; and Mr. F. C. Smith, assistant in the
Chemical Laboratory, to give instruction in Quantitative Analysis. The




206


MARCH MEETING. 1888.


additional compensation of each was fixed at one hundred and fifty dollars
($150).                      JAMES B. ANGELL, 
C. R. WHITMAN,         Committee.
R. W. BUTTERFIELD, 
The action of the Committee was approved by a full
vote of the Board.
The President presented and read the following communication:
PRESIDENT ANGELL,
Dear Sir:-In the summer of 1886, the Dowager Lady Vernon, through
Mr. Henry Frowde of London, offered to present to the Libraries of certain
selected Public Institutions of this country, among them the Library of the
University of Michigan, copies of the magnificent edition of the Inferno of
Dante, (3 volumes folio), compiled and arranged by George John Lord Vernon, and brought out two orthree years after his death by his son, Augustus
Henry Lord Vernon.
Lady Vernon also offered at the same time a copy of the large folio
reprint of the Prime Quattro Edizione della Divina Conmmedia, published by
George John Lord Vernon in 1858.
These offers were of course gratefully accepted by the officials of the
University Library.
On account of some necessary preparation of the volumes and on other
accounts they were not received here until last month. Their value is very
great but as they were printed for presentation and not for sale, it is hard to
represent their value in money.
Still another gift to the Library, made March 15th, is the check of Mr.
Edward C. Hegeler of La Salle, Illinois, for $275, which he wishes to have
applied on the purchase of a complete set of Liebig's Annalen for the Chei -
ical collection.
I think these gifts of sufficient value to merit special acknowledgment
by the Board of Regents. It gives me great pleasure to report them to you
at this time for the consideration of the Board.
Very Respectfully,
R. C. DAVIS, Librarian.
Regent Willett, moved that the donations be received
with thanks, and the communication be           spread on the
records of the meeting.
The motion was carried by a full vote.
Regent Whitman presented a communication from
the University Senate as to the annual Commencement
Dinner.    It recommended the essential features of the
plan adopted last year, and suggested that a charge of fifty
cents be collected from    each person for admission to the
dinner. Adopted by a full vote.




fMARCH MEETING, 1888.


207


Regent Whitman moved that the appropriations made
for the departments of Professors Vaughan and Carhart
be placed in the hands of the Auditing Board, to be
expended as may be necessary.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark. Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett the Board went into
Executive Session.
Regent Whitman presented the following communication:
To the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: —The unanimous opinion of the Facnlty of the Dental
Department is that the requirements for graduation should be extended to
three terms of nine months, that such change should take effect in October,
1889, and that the statement of this intended change should be made in
the next Announcement.        Yours Respectfully,
J. TAFT, DEAN.
Regent Whitman moved that the plan recommended
be adopted. Carried.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman presented the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Building Committee be empowered to
extend the time for the execution of the contract for the completion of the Engineering Laboratory, until the necessary
appropriation shall be made by the Legislature therefor, the contractors to receive upon such final completion sufficient with
amounts already paid to equal the contract price.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
The President presented the following communication:
To the President and Regents of the University of Michigan:
Having been appointed to a position elsewhere, I hereby resign
the Assistant Professorship of Philosophy in the University, the same to
take effect Oct. 1st, 1888.                JOHN DEWEY.




208


MARCH MEETING, 1888.


Regent Whitman introduced the following resolution:
Resolved, That the resignation of Mr. John Dewey as
Assistant Professor of Philosophy be accepted, though with sincere regret that the University is compelled to lose so bright a
light from its body of instructors.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Mr. W. S. Hough, A.
M. was appointed Instructor in Philosophy for one year
from Oct. 1st, next, at $900 salary.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper the Degree of Bachelor
of Arts was conferred upon Frank Euclid Beeman, as of
the year 1887.
The President made a statement that, through a misunderstanding, Professor Henry Gibbes had made expenditures for the use of the Pathological Laboratory somewhat
in excess of the amount set aside for that purpose by the
Regents at a former meeting.
On motion of Regent Willett the Auditing Board were
directed to audit and pay vouchers on such obligations
as had been so contracted in excess, the goods purchased
now being in the Custom House at New York.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
MORNING SESSION.
WEDNESDAY, March 28, 1888.
Adjourned meeting convened at 9 o'clock.
Present-The President, Regents Draper, (lark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.




MARCH MEETING, 1888,


209


Executive Session was resumed.
On motion of Regent Willett it was resolved as follows:
Resolved, In order that there may be no misunderstanding
about the matter it is hereby stated that the fourth recommen -
dation of the special Committee on salaries,(Regents' Proceedings,
1888, p. 202), applies to all Departments of the University.
On motion of Regent Willett the following resolution
was unanimously adopted:
Resolved, That Regent Whitman constitute a Committee to
investigate the question of service in the different Departments
with more particular reference to hours of work and concentrations of special lines of work. If thought desirable to tabulate
the result of the investigation, the Auditing Board are hereby
authorized to appropriate a sum not exceeding twenty-five dollars for such purpose.
Regent Willett was added to the Committee by vote.
Regent Willett moved and the motion was adopted,
that Professors Walter and Thomas be requested to make
a brief written statement of their recommendations with
regard to courses in French and German, and that the subject be referred to the Committee on Literary Department.
On motion of Regent Willett the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the Board appreciate the extreme necessity
of more room for the Dental Department and would gladly
remove the difficulty; but that the way does not seem to be open
at present, as it is deemed unwise to anticipate appropriations.
Adopted.
On motion of Regent Draper it was
Resolved, That the verbal communication of Professors Carhart and Vaughan relative to water supply for the Laboratories
of Physics and Hygiene be referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds to take such action as investigation shall show
to be necessary.
Adopted by a full vote.




210


MARCH MEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Whitman the Auditing Board
were directed to place the name of Professor Henry Gibbes
on the Pay Roll and compute his pay from January 1st,
1888.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett the Executive Committee were authorized to make such arrangements as
may be found necessary relating to changes in the clerical
force at the Library provided no increase of expenses were
incurred.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark the Auditing Board were
authorized to employ a suitable carpenter to work at
pattern making till the end of June, if necessary.
The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Whitman, Butterfield and
Hebard.
Nay-Regent Willett.
On motion of Regent Clark it was voted that the
machinist now employed be paid for the time he has
already worked and for the time he shall work-as agreed
-at the rate of three dollars a day while working.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman it was voted that the
Auditing Board have published two hundred each of the
semi-centennial addresses of Dr. Angell and of Dr. Frieze
for distribution.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.




MARCH MEETING, 1888.              211
On motion of Regent Willett it was voted that the
Auditing Board be authorized to procure the printing of
Dr. Ford's Memorial Address of the late Dr. Palmer.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Whitman, Butterfield and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board adjourned.
H. SOULE,
Seedy pro tern.




REGULAR MEETING.
JUNE, 1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1888. J
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-The President, Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Absent-Regent Clark.
The meeting was called to order and opened with
prayer by the President.
On motion of Regent Field, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
The President stated that a large number of communications had been placed in his hands, and suggested that
they be referred to appropriate committees of the Board.
There being no objection, the papers took that course.
Regent Draper presented the following communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, June 26, 1888.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: For the maintenance of the teaching force and dispensing service of the Chemical Laboratory for the University year 1888-9, I beg
to submit to you the following recommendations:
(1) That ALvIso B. STEVENS, Ph. C., be continued as Instructor in
Pharmacy, with the salary heretofore granted him. (Minutes of the Board,
June, 1887, page 124).
(2) That FRANK C. SMITH be continued as Assistant in Quantitative
Analysis, at the salary of his last year's appointment, $250.
(3) After a service of ten years as accountant and dispensing clerk in




214


JUNE MEETlNG, 1SSS.


the Chemical Laboratory, Mrs. KATE C. JOHNSON has stated her purpose to
be released from this engagement. Her services have been of great value to
the Chemical Laboratory, in securing system in accounts with students
and in preserving economy in control of the supplies. For the year 1888-9 I
recommend the appointment of WILLIAM F. EDWARDS as Accountant and
Dispensing Clerk in the Chemical Laboratory, at the salary of the previous
incumbent, six hundred dollars a year. Mr. EDWARDS has been for one
year the assistant in qualitative chemistry.
(4) I recommend that DAVID H. BROWNE, Ph. B., (Univ. of Mich.,
1885), chemist of the Lumberman's Mining Co., Iron Mountain, Mich., be appointed as Instructor in Quantitative Analysis, at a salary of nine hundred
dollars a year, to succeed to the duties of laboratory instruction of the
late Professor CHEEVER, leaving the lectureship of metallurgy to be otherwise provided for, without increase of expenditure in the total provision.
(5) I recommend, that ERVIN E. EWELL, Ph. C., be appointed as Assistant in Qualitative Analysis, for the coming year, to succeed Mr. EDWARDS
and at the salary of the previous incumbent.
The above named recommendations propose no change in expenditure.
Provision for continuing the present service of assistants in qualitative chemistry, pharmacognosy, organic chemistry, and physiological chemistry, will be recommended at a later date.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Director of the Chemical Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Draper the recommendations of
Dr. A. B. Prescott, Director of the Chemical Laboratory,
were   adopted, except number (4) relating         to the   appointment of David H. Browne, Ph. B., which was held
in abeyance, awaiting the consideration of other matters
bearing on the readjustment of the work in Metallurgy.
A call vote being taken resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper presented the following communication from the Dean of the School of Pharmacy:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIIGAN,
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY,
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1888.
To the Honorable, the Roard of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: By direction of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy
I respectfully report that the following named persons have completed all
the requirements for the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist:




JVNE MEETING, 188.


215


Chalmers Pennington Allen,
Charles Walter Allison,
Charles Vincient Boetcher,
William Frederick Eberbach,
Ervin Edgar Ewell,
Richard Ernest Hawkes,
Dorsey Presley Horine,
Samuel Kidder, Jr.,
Henry Levy,
Albert Oechsler,
Herman Adolph Passolt,
John Elmer M. Pennington,


Frank Bertrand Raynale,
Andrew Edward Ruse,
John Henry Shaper,
Marie Rozinda Smith,
Edward Soetje,
Ezra Jones Ware,
Chauncey Newell Waterman,
John Alfonzo Wesener,
Joseph Burgess Whinery,
Frank Davis Wiseman,
Karl George Zwick,


Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Dean of the Faculty


On motion of Regent Draper, it was voted to confer
the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the School of
Pharmacy.
Regent Willett presented the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: By Direction of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, I have the honor to report that the following
named persons are recommended to you for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


Carrie Ayers,
Ida Ayers,
Frank Elmer Converse,
Cora May Chapman,
Thomas Hart Gale,
John Hubert Greusel,
Richard Greene Inwood,
Alexander Campbell Kiskadden,
Jed Hannibal Lee,


James Nathan McBride,
Selby Albert Moran,
Lizzie Herson Northup,
Carrie Louise Paine,
Clayton Albert Read,
Moritz Rosenthal,
Francis Leslie Stevenson,
John Edward Stillwell,
Laura Oliver Tupper,


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN BIOLOGY.)
Marietta Laughridge Knowles.




JUATE MEETING, 1888.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN CHEMISTRY.)


John David Riker,
Willard Clark Sanford,


Fred Fraley Sharpless,
George Walton Whyte.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN MINING ENGINEERING.)
Herbert Joseph Stull.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.)


Edwin Hart Ehrman,
Ross LeHunte Mahon,
William Howie Muir,
Walter Robert Parker,


Charles Edward Roehl,
Ralph Martin Shankland,
Harry John Williams.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN CIVIL ENGINEERING.)


Albert Burnstine,
Fred Calvin Davis,
John Eugenius Hodge,
James Allen Lewis,
William Henry Pease,
Willard Pope,


Percy Hunt Richardson,
Joseph Rusche,
Edgar Ryan,
John Ward Shotwell, Jr.,
Ernest Marshall Sprague,
Ebenezer Franklin Walbridge.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN GENERAL SCIENCE.)
George Arthur Brown,            Frank Daniel McDonell,
Solomon Eisenstdedt,            Charles Orrin Townsend,
Charles Harrison Hatch,         Chester Wetmore,
William Alfred Hutzel,          Elmer Grant Willyoung,


BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Laverne Bassett,
Carrie Ellen Britten,
Clarence Galen Campbell,
Louella Chapin,
David Kipling Cochrane,
Rossetter Gleason Cole,
Louis Kossuth Comstock,
Rachel Ella Dawson.
Walter Jones Hamilton,
Leverge Knapp,


Ray Dee Lampson,
Morgan McMorries Mann,
Charles Tyler Miller,
Fanny Talcott Mulliken,
Chester Harvey Rowell,
Francis Morton Sessions,
Henry Fish Shier,
Edwin Elijah Washburn,
Henry Kirk White.




JUNE MEETING, 18S8.


217


BACHELOR OF ARTS,


Mary Emma Ashley,
James Harvey Beazell,
John Noble Blair,
Edward Boyle,
Edgar Ewing Brandon,
Gertrude Tamora Breed,
Henry Herbert Brown,
Joseph Beatty Burtt,
Harvey Safford Bush,
Elizabeth Rebecca Clark,
Anson Bartie Curtis,
Charles Henry Cushing,
Herbert Fletcher DeCou,
Ellsworth Thomas Derr,
John Leander Duffy,
Daniel Ephrair Ewald,
Francis Chipman Ford,
Albert Eugene Gebhardt,
Caroline Louise Gelston,
Katy Helen Gower,
William Amasa Grace,
Carrie Haigh,
Preston M. Hickey,
Hermann Charles William Hildnei
Alice Minerva Hosmer,
Elmer Ellsworth Hubbard,
Elsie Jones,


Franklin Harvey Kinn ey,
Emory Davis Kirby,
Franklin Frees Lehman,
Armin Otto Leuschner,
Lucian Hezekiah Emmett Lowry,
Robert Douglas MacLeod,
Martha Prentice Merwin,
George Elmer Milliman,
George Ralph Mitchell,
Frank Irwin Muir,
Achsa S. Parker,
Paul Victor Perry,
Frank George Plain,
Erastus Francis Potter,
Flora Mabel Potter,
John Havard Powell,
Harold Remington,
Edwin Spencer Shaw,
Clyde Slone,
Honta Belle Smalley,
Reuben Sherman Smith,
Julia Ruth Tolman,
Bert John Vos,,George Joseph Waggoner,
Laura E Whitlcy,
Bertha Hammond Wright.


MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY.


Henrietta Ash Bancroft,


Gertrude Helen Mason.


MASTER OF ARTS.


Fred Converse Clark,
Myron Oscar Graves,
Susan Rachel Harrison,


Myra Elizabeth Pollard,
Fred Newton Scott.


DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Ludovic Estes, A. M.,


Fred Manville Taylor, A. M.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Secretary,


Regent Willett submitted the following resolution.
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the degrees, as indicated in the communication just read, be conferred upon the persons named, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Depart
ment of Literature, Science, and the Arts.




218


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


Regent Draper presented and read the following communication from   the Auditing Board, and recommended
its adoption.:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: In consideration for certain supplies furnished by the
University, the Matron of the University Hospital is required to pay the
Treasurer the sum of $700 per annum. (See Regents' Proceedings for 1885,
Page 622).
The Matron claims there have been fewer patients this year than usual,
and that supplies and help have cost her more. She therefore asks that the
above amount be somewhat reduced.
The Auditing Board have had the matter under consideration, and
agree to recommend to your Board a rebate of $100, for this year only.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
JAMES H. WADE,
HARRISON SOULE.
The vote on the above recommendation was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Section 1 of Chapter
XIV. of the By-Laws was amended by inserting the words
Th/e President of the    University, before " Professors,"
making the amended section read as follows: " The President of the University, Professors, Acting Professors, Lecturers, Assistant Professors of all the Faculties, and the
Librarian shall constitute the University Senate."
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Prof. Carhart be allowed for superintending
the construction of the building designed for the Laboratories of
Physics and Hygiene, the sum of $60 per month from April 25th
ult., to the 1st of July, 1888, and the sum of $50 per month after
the 1st of July, provided that the same shall be not paid for more
than two months after July 1st, and that the aforesaid compensation shall be in full for the superintending by Prof. Carhart of
said building until its completion.
The resolution of Regent Whitman was adopted by
the following vote:




J UNE MEETINGG,1888.


219


Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock p. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock p. M.
Dr. Ford, Dean of the Faculty of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery, being present, addressed the Board
on the needs of that Department.      Dr. Frothingham     presented the recommendations of the Hospital Committee,
and discussed the condition of the Hospital and its needs.
Regent Clark presented the following communication
from Professor Chas. N. Jones:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1888.
HoN. JAMES B. ANGELL, LL. D., President of the University of Michigan:
Dear Sir: Having accepted a position in the service of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, at Milwaukee, Wis., I hereby tender,
through you, to the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, my resignation of the position of Professor of Applied Mathematics, to
take effect October 1st, 1888.
In thus terminating my official connection with the University, I cannot forbear giving some expression to the feeling of sorrow with which I
turn aside from its service, and from the work in which I have been engaged
for fourteen years. It is with great pain that I break up relations that have
been uniformly harmonious and a constant source of pleasure.
I have been moved to take this step, that does violence to so many feelings, solely by a sense of duty, growing out of an opportunity to secure better financial returns for my services in other employment.
Respectfully yours,
C. N. JONES.
On motion of Regent Willett, the resignation of Professor C. N. Jones was accepted.
The following communication from        the Dean of the
Dental Department, was presented by Regent Draper:




220


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY,
ANN ARBOR, June 26, 1888.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: The following named persons having complied with the
requirements of this Department, are recommended by the Faculty of the
Dental College for the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery.
Respectfully submitted,
J. TAFT, Dean.


Horace Albert Benson,
Clarence Walker Berry,
William Townsend Binzley,
Harriet A. Parkes Brierley,
Elwyn Butts,
Rollin Edward Drake,
William Fraser Dunlop,
Frank Howard Essig,
William Burton Flynn,
Sherman M. Fowler,
Jeronimo Jill Garcia,
Arthur Newton Hart,
Elmer Bertrand Hause,
Oliver Wendell Huff,
Egbert T. Lceffler,
Otto Marx,
Thomas Stuart Maxwell,
Charles Edward Meerhoff,
Richard Edward Moll,


Irvin Myers,
Rudolph Paul Nagle,
Harry Cox Nickels,
Charles Walter Nutting,
Homer Ellsworth Parshall,
William Orlando Randall,
Henry Charles Raymond,
Theckla Stein Renter,
Henry William Riser,
Martha Josephine Robinson,
Henry Martin Seybold,
Michael Cornelius Sheehan,
Lucius Chipman Smith,
Sherman M. Stauffer,
Martin Dogener Van den Berg,
Alfred Frederick Webster,
William Holt Woodburn,
Walter Thomas Wright.


On motion of Regent Draper, it was voted to confer
the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Dental
Department.
On motion of Regent Draper, the resignation of Geo.
A. Hendricks, Instructor of Anatomy and Curator of the
Medical Museum, was accepted.
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following communication from the Faculty
of the Department of Medicine and Surgery:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents;
GENTLEMEN: At a meeting of the Medical Faculty, held Thursday,
June 7th, the Secretary was instructed to cast a ballot for the following
named candidates, who have fulfilled the requirements for the degree of
Doctor of Medicine:




JUNE MEETING, 1888.


221


Christine K. Anderson,
James Henry Anderson,
Hagop B. Asadoorian,
Louis John Carrick Bailey,
Coryadon Orlan Beardsley,
Lewis Jerome Belknap,
Alexander Jay Braden,
Francis William Brewer,
Fred L. Burdon,
Frank Chaffee,
Joshua Monocton Chesebro,
Oramel Ozro Chesebro,
Arthur Hamilton Coe,
Frantz Hunt Coe,
Madison James Conant,
George Hall Conklin,
Mary Maria Cutler,
Mary Gage Day,
Celia Louise Dowse,
John Whalen Doyle,
Herbert P. Ewell,
Earl Fairbanks,
Josa Theresa Fleming,
Charles A. Fletcher,
Zeri H. Fodrea,
Paul Smith Fox,
Benjamin Nathan Gardner,
Elmer Daley Gardner,
Jefferson Gould,
James Grassick,
Will Lyman Griffin,
Frederick S. Heller,


Nellie Anna Hollister,
Clementine L. Houghton,
Henry Hulst,
James Gordon Jackson,
Marcus Whitfield Jewell,
Adrian Reginald Karreran,
Horace Manley Lane,
Lida Powers Leasure,
Bradford Churchill Loveland,
James Gifford Lynds,
Charles Webster Macdade,
William F. Metcalf,
Delbert Joseph Miller,
Mary Howell Miller,
John Isaac Newcomb,
Zeovia Owen,
Frances Peele,
Ida May Porter,
Vernet Edward Prevost,
Bert Bessac Rowe,
Henry William Schmidt,
Douglas Sewall,
John Frederick Siefert,
Belle Hamilton Smith,
Kate Snyder,
Willis Edward Sterrs,
Mary Strong,
Edith Estella Taylor,
Thomas Henry Trainor,
Bertha VanHoosen,
Amos Solon Wlheelock,
Seymour Syria Williams.


On motion of Regent Draper, it was voted to confer
the degree of Doctor of Medicine upon the persons named
in the above communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
Permission being given, Dr. Prescott addressed the
Board on the needs of the School of Pharmacy.  He directed special attention to the readjustment of the work
in metallurgy made necessary by the death of Professor
Byron W. Cheever.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board went into
executive session, after which the business of the open
session was resumed.
2




222


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


Dr. Henry Sewall, Professor of Physiology, asked for
and obtained leave of absence for one year, his salary to
continue, provided he supplies necessary instruction in
his department to the satisfaction of the Board.
Regent Field moved that Professor Demmon be allowed one hundred dollars for editing the Semi-Centennial Commemorative Volume. A call vote being taken
on this motion, resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, five copies of the
Memorial Volume were reserved for each member of the
Board.
Regent Willett presented the resignation of A. Hennequin, Instructor in French and German, which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Walter Miller, Instructor in Latin, S. W. Clary, Instructor in German, and
F. G. Novy, Instructor in Hygiene and Physiological
Chemistry, were re-appointed for one year, at a salary of
$900 each, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Richard Hudson, Assistant Professor of
History, be made full Professor of History, with a salary of
$2,200. and that Andrew C. McLaughlin, Instructor in History,
be made Assistant Professor of History, with a salary of $1,600,
appointments to date from Oct. 1st next.
The vote on Regent Whitman's resolution resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.




JUNE MEETING, 1888.


223


Regent Willett moved that the following appointments be made for one year: A. F. Lange, Instructor in
English; W. W. Campbell, Instructor in Astronomy;
Alexander Ziwet and Charles Puryear, Instructors in
Mathematics; and that the Executive Committee be
authorized to select and appoint another Instructor in
Mathematics-the salary of each to be $900.
The vote on Regent Willett's motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Thomas C. Trueblood, Teacher of Elocution, was made Instructor in Elocution for one semester, at a salary of $1,000, his time to
be equally divided between the Law and Literary Departments.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Dr. B. T. Trueblood
was appointed Lecturer on General Chemistry to the medical classes for one semester, at a salary of $1,000, by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman,
Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned to
7:30 o'clock P. M.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 7:30 o'clock p. M. Regent
Clark having arrived, the full Board was present.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Board went into
executive session, after which the business of the open
session was resumed.
The following communication from the Faculty of
the Law Department was presented by Regent Butterfield:




224


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GEINTLEMEN: The following students in the Department of Law having completed the course of instruction in that Department t, the satisfaction of the Faculty, I am instructed to report their names toyour Honorable
Body with the recommendation that the degree of Bachelor of Laws be


conferred upon them.
Charles Ailing, A. B.,
Hanover College.
Sumner Simpson Anderson,
John Allen Bagley,
William Weller Baylor,
Norman James Beane, Att'y,
Henry Clay Beitler,
Joseph Edward Bell, Att'y,
John Lee Benedict, Ph. B.,
De Pauw University.
Harvey Lee Benschoter,
Thomas Ashford Bogle, Att'y,
Daniel Robert Burke,
Thomas Glashan Campbell, A. B,
Toronto University.
Thomas Capek,
Fred Cavanagh,
Charles Upham Champion,
Addison Braden Clark,
Elmer Elsworth Clark,
Russell Smith Clark,
Robert Fremont Clever,
Harrison Dygert Cole,
James Thomas Cooley,
Allen Foster Cooper, Att'y,
William Francis Crockett,
Lodowick Fitch Crofoot,
Daniel Devine Cunningham, Att'y,
Oliver M. Cunningham, Att'y,
Charles Brookman Cushman, B. S.,
Knox College.
Peter John Danhof, Att'y,
Clyde C. Dawson, Att'y,
David Barnes Day,
David B. Decker, Att'y,
Louis Lincoln Dennett, A. B.,
University of the Pacific.
Lee DeVries, Ph. B, Att'y,
San Joaquin Valley College.
Marion DeVries, Ph. B.,
San Joaquin Valley College,
William Pitt Dewey, Jr., Att'y,
John Duff,
John Herbert Duffie,
Clarendon Bennett Eyer,
Matthew Finn, Jr.,


William Simpson Frost,
Jacob Burger Furry,
Peter J. Galle,
William Cornelius Gallagher, Att'y,
Perley Francis Gosbey, A. M., Att'y,
University of the Pacific.
Franklin Israel Gosser,
Henry James Grannis, A. B.,
University of Minnesota.
Austin Edwards Griffiths, Att'y,
Tyler Leslie Hagerthy,
Edmon Grant Hall, Att'y,
Theodore Daniel Halpin,
William De Zeng Heise,
John Maurice Herbert, A. B., Att'y,
College of Christian Brothers.
Hardin Helm Herr, Att'y,
Edward Charles Higgins, Att'y,
Almeda Eliza Hitchcock,
Ralph Widden Hobart, A. B., Att'y,
Kings College.
Michael Henry Hoey,
Joseph Howley,
William August Hunneke, A. B,,
German Wallace College.
Charles Montgomery Irwin,
Ernest Herndon Jackson,
Alexander Johnson,
Henry Zacharias Johnson, Att'y,
William Lemuel Joyce,
Edward Henry Kennedy,
John Kirk,
Elmer Kirkby, Att'y,
Frank Herbert Knapp, A. B., Att'y,
Acadia College.
Ellery Elmer Kribbs,
Peter John Lehman, Att'y,
James Thomas Locke,
William Osbert Lowden, Att'y
Vincent Silas Lumley, Att'y,
Ulysses Grant Martin,
George Hamilton Mason, Att'y
Yasukuni Matsudaira,
Frank Malvern Mather,
Fred Hamlin McDermont, Att'y,
Michael Edward McEnany, Ph.B.,A'y,




JUNE MEETING, 1888.


225


Matthew James McEniry, LL. B.,
Notre Dame University.
Oscar Beaufort McGlasson,
Josiah Slutts McKean,
Francis McNulty, Jr.,
John Barton Mecham,
Benton Middlekauff,
Warren French Mills,
Byron Clyde Mitchner, Att'y,
Chilton Monroe,
Frank Latham Moore,
William Hickman Moore, A. B.,
State College of Kentucky.
Hugh Coventry Morris, A. B.,
Albion College.
Daniel Lawrence Morrison,
Henry Mervale Morrow, Att'y,
John William Mowen,
August Edward Muenter, Att'y,
John Allen Murphy, Att'y,
William Monreith Murphy,
Charles Solomon Northrup, Att'y,
Charles Vincent O'Connor,
Frederick Clayton Olney,
Wilbur Owen, B. S.,
Coe College.
Horace Mann Paget,
William Lewis Parmenter,
Newton Austin Phelps,
Samuel Lawrence Philbrick, Att'y,
Robert Frank Porter,
Wilbur Byron Reading, Att'y,
James Marion Reed,
Alexander Frederick Reichmann,
Charles Frederick Remy, A. B.,
Franklin College.
Charles Leroy Richardson,
William Henry Rote,


John Rezin Sapp,
William Devore Scott, Att'y,
Charles McCorn Simpson,
Wiley Edward So Relle,
George Bourdillon Stewart,
Amzi Wood Strong, Att'y,
William Franz Struckman,
Kiyotoshi Sugimoto,
Jesse Taber, A. B.,
Wabash College.
Alonzo S. Thomas, M. D.,
Rush Medical College.
Alexander Rankin Thompson, Att'y,
Charles William Thomson,
Cyril M. Tifft,
Merrill C. Tifft,
Benjamin Johnston Tillar, A. B.,
Arkansas Industrial University.
Tracy Lay Towner,
Fred Townsend,
Orra Milton Townsend, B. S., Att'y,
Southwest Baptist College.
Leander Theodore Turner,
William IHarvey Turner,
Mark Dayton Tyler,
John Quincy Van Swearingen,
Meade Vestal,
Ernst Ludwig Von Suessmilch,
Theodosius Wade,
Price Donner West, A. B.,
De Pauw University.
Nicholas Patrick Whelan
Gardner Kessler WVilder, A. B..
Miami College.
Milton Millard Wildman, Att'y,
Henry Sigismund Woolner,
George Bassett Yerkes,


Respectfully submitted for the Faculty,
HENRY WADE ROGERS, Dean.
ANN ARBOR, June 26th, 1888.
On motion of Regent Butterfield it was voted to confer the degree of Bachelor of Laws upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance
with the recomendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law.
Regent Blair presented and read the following communication from the Faculty of the Department of Law:




226


JUNE SMEETING, 188S.


To the Honorable Board of Regents:
The Law Faculty respectfully recommend that the degree of Bachelor
of Laws be conferred on Alfred Stillman Frost and on Harry Orlando Wilkinson, but that the degree be withheld from temrn until after Commencement and that their names be not printed on the Commencement programme.
Respectfully submitted for the Law Faculty,
HENRY WADE ROGERS, Dean.
ANN ARBOR, June 26th, 1888.
On motion of Regent Blair it was voted to confer the
degree of Bachelor of Laws upon Alfred Stillman Frost
and Harvey Orlando Wilkinson in accordance with the
recommendation of the Law Faculty.
On motion of Regent Draper the title -of Dr. H. R.
Arndt was changed to Professor of Materia Medica and
Therapeutics and Clinical Professor of Diseases of the
Nervous System.
The following communication from the Faculty of
the Homneopathic Medical College was presented          by
Regent Draper:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: The Faculty of the Homoeopathic College recommend
the following candidates for the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
George Dute Arntt,           John Hancock Lawrence,
Wm. Frederick Brooks,        Hutoka Lucy Porter,
Mary Ann Cook,               Eugene Woodman Ruggles,
Edward Arthur Darby,         Iarriet Swathel Sanborn,
Ella Kyes Dearborn,          Duacan James Sinclair,
Lizzie Amanda Hendershott,   Mary Ella Thompson, A. B.
H. L. OBETZ, Dean.
On motion of Regent Draper it was voted to confer
the degree of Doctor of Medicine upon the         persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homeeopathic Medical College.
The following report of a committee appointed by
the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery
to consider and report on the condition of the University
Hospital was received.




JUNE MEETING, 18S8.


227


To the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the University
of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: The undersigned, members of your committee to consider the improvements urgently needed in the hospital buildings and
equipments and also in the future management of the same, respectfully
submit that they have taken the matter into consideration and would
recommend the following:First, That the buildings and the spaces under the floors of each be
thoroughly disinfected and that the premises be cleaned as soon as possible
after the close of the present term.
Second, That all the bedding and other furniture that cannot be thoroughly disinfected be burned.
Third, That the price of bard be raised to four dollars per week, all
extras to be charged to the patient when able to pay.
Fourth, That a competent matron and steward be engaged to conduct
the culinary department, and that the University authorities be asked to
assume the direct control of this matter, with the aid of the Hospital Committee, and that the present system of boarding patients by contract be
abolished.
Fifth, That the appointment of the House Physician, Wardmaster, and
Wardmistress be for one year, and that the resignation of the present House
Surgeon be requested in accordance with this new plan.
Sixth, That the heating and ventilating be thoroughly investigated by
an expert, and necessary improvements made to render them as perfect as
possible with the means.at the disposal of the Regents.
Seventh, That more help be engaged to attend to the office and amphitheatre and to keep the buildings and surroundings clean.
Eighth, That each of the large divisions of the two wards be divided
into two compartments, making three compartments in each ward, so as to
allow of the proper disinfection of any one of them when needed during
term time.
Ninth, That the Board of Regents be asked to make the necessary
appropriation for these improvements out of the Hospital Fund.
Tenth, That the Regents be asked to have all moneys paid by patients
for medicines and supplies furnished and paid for from the Hospital Fund
returned to the Hospital Fund again, and not placed in the General Fund
of the University as at present is done.
Eleventh, That the Hospital Committee shall, before the commencement of another term, establish a proper dietary, and formulate rules for
the general management of the Hospital, and appoint one of their number
to see that the same be properly carried out.
Twelfth, That the vacancies existing in the Hospital Committee be
filled and that the committee be reorganized and enlarged.
[Signed]   G. E. FROTHINGHAM, )
JOHN NV. LANGLEY. >Committee.
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,)
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
submitted    the following report and recommendations,
which were adopted by the full vote of the Board.




228


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your Committee to which was referred the foregoing communication
from the Medical Faculty, have considered the same and respectfully
recommend that the 1st, 2d and 5th recommendations in such communication contained be concurred in, and that the 3d and 4th recommendations
be referred to the Auditing Board and Hospital Committee, with authority
to take such action as may be necessary in the premises.
Your Committee further recommend that the same action be taken in
reference to the Homceopathic Hospital by the Auditing Board and Hospital Committee of the Homoeopathic College.
Your Committee further recommend that the expense incident to the
work to be done be charged to and payable from the repair fund.
C. S. DRAPER,
June 26th, 1888.                      R. W. BUTTERFIELD.
On motion of Regent Willett, Dr. W. A. Campbell
was appointed permanent Secretary of the Faculty of the
Department of Medicine and Surgery at a salary of $200
per annum, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper the following appointments were made in the University Hospital:
Dr. G. W. Lacea, Resident Physician and Surgeon; salary,
$500.
Dr. E. D. Gardner, Wardmaster; salary, $300.
P. H. Scully, Nurse; salary, $300.
Miss M. M. Cutler, M. D., Wardmistress; salary, $300.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
The iHomeopathic Medical Faculty          recommended
the following appointments in their Department:
John S. Campbell, AM. D., Resident Physician and Assistant to the Chair of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, at a salary
of $350.
Harriet M. Allen, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, and to the Chair of
Ophthalmology and Otology, at a salary of $200.
George D. Arndt, M. D., Assistant to the Chair of Surgery




JUNE MEETING, 1838.


229


and to the Chair of Principles and Practice of Medicine, at a
salary of $200.
On motion of Regent Draper the above appointments
were made by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, Mr. Joseph E. Putnam
was appointed Assistant in Physics for one year at a
salary of $700 by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the sum of $100 was
appropriated for the purchase of glass jars and glass
models, needed in the Zoological Laboratory; and $50 for
the purchase of Ellis's Sets of North American Fungi,
needed in the Botanical Laboratory.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Professor Elisha Jones, being seriously ill, asked for
and obtained leave of absence for one year, salary to lapse
during his absence.
On motion of Regent Willett, Mr. J. McCabe was appointed Instructor in French, for one year, at a salary of
$900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Board adjourned to
8 o'clock to-morrow morning.


3




230


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


WEDNESDAY MORNING.
The Board reassembled at 8 o'clock.
Absent-Regent Hebard.
Regent Blair, Chairman of the Law Committee, recommended the following appointments in the Law Department:
1st. That Professors Levi T. Griffin and William P. Wells,
and Assistant Professor J. C. Knowlton, be reappointed for another year*, at the same salaries as heretofore paid.
2d. That Bradley M. Thompson be appointed Jay Professor
of Law, at a salary of $2,000.
3d. That Henry B. Brown be appointed Lecturer on Admiralty, for the ensuing year, at a salary of $350.
4th. That Melville M. Bigelow be appointed Lecturer on
Insurance in 1888-9, at a salary of $300.
5th. That Wm. G. Hammond be appointed Lecturer on
the History of Common Law during the year 1889-90, at a salary
of $300.
On motion of Regent Blair, the appointments recomniended by the Law Committee were concurred in by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair moved that the salary of Assistant Librarian J. H. Vance be made $700, and that the sum of
$75 be appropriated for advertising the Law Department
for the next year. Carried.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Dr. D. A. Deucher was
appointed Assistant in Physiology for one year, at a salary
of $150, by the following vote:


* See Proceedings of Meeting, July, 1888.




JUNE MIEETING, 1888.


231


Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett, Chairman of the Library Committee,
reported as follows:
The Library Committee take pleasure in reporting the donation of the Dorsch Collection of books to the General Library. It contains 1,676 volumes and 136 pamphlets, many of
them immensely valuable. The Committee would recommend
that the letter of Mrs. Dorsch, accompanying the donation, and
the sketch of the life of Dr. Dorsch, prepared by Professor
Thomas, be printed in the minutes, and that President Angell
be requested to return to Mrs. Dorsch the thanks of this Board.
Carried by the unanimous vote of the Board.
MONROE, MICH., May, 1888.
To the Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: It was the wish of my late husband, Dr.EDWARD DORSCH,
that at his decease, his valuable private library should not be separated, but
be given, as a whole, to some educational institution. Although in his last
will and testament Dr. DORSCI has made no request regarding this library,
in a conversation we had a few months before his sudden death, he indicated
the wish to me that the University of Michigan should be the heir to his
books. Therefore I am convinced that I carry out the spirit of his intentions
by giving this library to the State in which the Doctor passed a greater portion of his life, and in whose educational welfare 1he was always deeply interested. I ask you, therefore, gentlemen, to accept the Collection upon the
understanding that the books composing it shall be kept together and
known for all time as the "Dorsch Library."
Respectfully yours,
MRS. DR. E. DORSCH.
DR. EDWARD DORSCH.
EDWARD DORSCH was born January 10, 1822, of Protestant parents, at
Wiirzburg, in Bavaria. At the age of ten he was placed in a Catholic school
in Munich, and there received his preparation for the university, which he
entered in 1840. While a student of medicine at Munich he devoted much
attention to Natural History, especially to Botany, which remained a favorite pursuit with him throughout his entire life.
At the time of the revolutionary outbreaks of 1848, Dr. DORSCH was a
young practitioner of Vienna. Here, as he tells us in a brief autobiographical sketch, his professional labors had often to be carried on amid scenes of
carnage. Often he was awakened in the morning by the volley of musketry
which terminated the existence of some one who had made himself an object
of suspicion to the reactionary government. By nature and education a
liberal, Dr. DORSCH had no sympathy with the regime then dominant in
Austria; and when the horrors of military despotism were aggravated by




232


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


the breaking out of the cholera, he readily persuaded himself to join a company of emigrants that were just setting out for America, and were in need
of a physician. He arrived with his family in this country in the autumn
of 1849, and took up his abode in Monroe, Michigan.
At Monroe Dr. DoRSCH soon developed a lucrative practice, and became
one of the most prominent and respected citizens of that portion of the
State. As his income increased, he indulged freely his appetite for books,
and so accumulated gradually the fine private library which now passes into
the possession of the University of Michigan.
Although he had previously voted as a Democrat, Dr. DORSCH connected himself with the Republican party from the time of its organization.
He was a delegate to the Republican convention at Coldwater, in 1854, and
during the presidential elections of 1856 and 1860, he edited a Republican
campaign paper at Monroe. During the war he was a government examiner
of recruits and invalids. Later he was appointed a IU. S. Examining Surgeon, and in connection with his work for the Pension office he
invented and introduced a new chart for use in describing graphically the
course of a bullet through the human body. In the brief autobiography
above alluded to, he remarks with evident professional satisfaction, that his
invention is still used by the Pension office.
From 1872 to 1878 Dr. DORSCH was a member of the State Board of Education-the last public office, he says, that he held or cared to hold. During
his later years he took a somewhat gloomy view of the course of politics in
his adopted country. He was a man of wide and varied intellectual interests, read books omnivorously in half a dozen languages, and exhibited, in
writing his native tongue, a marked literary talent. In 1874 he published a
volume of poems, some of which give evidence of poetic gifts of a really high
order. He died in January, 1887.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Board went into executive session, after which the business of the open
session was resumed.
On motion of Regent Willett, the salary of C. G. Taylor was made $1.603, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the title of Prof. J. W.
Langley was changed to Professor of General Chemistry
and Metallurgy: George W. Whyte was appointed Lecturer on Metallurgy, to fill the temporary vacancy caused
by   Professor Langley's absence on leave, salary $900;
and David H. Browne, Ph. B., was appointed Instructor
in Quantitative Analysis for one year, salary $900.




J UNE MEETING, 1888.


233


Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett the Board took a recess
to 3:30 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On motion of Regent Clark, Jacob E. Reighard was
appointed for one year Instructor in Zoology, at a salary
of $900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Auditing Board
were authorized to pay the expenses incurred by James L.
High, in coming here to address the Alumni of the Law
Department; and also the expenses of Thomas C. Chamberlin, President of the University of Wisconsin, who delivered the Commencement Oration.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, and
on motion of Regent Draper, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Archibald Peterson.
Also Doctor C. George was appointed Instructor in
Materia Medica for one year at a salary of $500.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Auditing Board
were instructed to make such arrangements with John M.
Smoots, Machinist in the Engineering Laboratory, as to




234


JUNE MEETING, 1888.


his salary, as would be satisfactory to him and for the best
interests of the University.
Regent Willett moved that the Auditing Board be
authorized to pay from the General Fund, if necessary,
the bills of Ransom & Randolph, of Toledo, for advertising the Dental College, amounting to $112.
The motion of Regent Willett was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Steward was directed to provide 40 feet of additional cases in the museum
for the better display of the Rominger Collection.
On motion of Regent Clark it was voted that Section I
of Chapter VIII of the By Laws be so amended as to read
as follows:
" The President of the University, the duly appointed Professors, Acting Professors, Associate Professors, Lecturers and
Instructors of any Department, College, or School of the University shall constitute the Faculty of Instruction in such Department, College, or School.
But the right to vote in any Faculty shall be restricted to
the President of the University, and to the Professors, Acting
Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, and Lecturers appointed to the full duties of Professors, in such Faculty.
This restriction, however, shall not apply to the present Secretary of the Literary Faculty nor to the present Secretary of the
Faculty of Pharmacy, who have hitherto had the privilege of
voting."
Elmer Sanford, B. S., was, on motion of Regent Clark,
appointed Instructor in Physiology for the year at the salary of $900, (to be provided by Professor Sewall under the
conditions of his leave of absence. See above, page 222).
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
presented the following report:




JUNE MEETING, 1888.


235


To the Hon. Board of Regents:
Your committee having had under consideration certain recommendations of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery and also a
protest of a minority of the same Faculty against some of the recommendations respectfully recommend;
1st. That the matter of filling the chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of
Women and Children, made vacant by the death of Dr. Dunster, be deferred
until the next meeting of the Board.
2d. That Dr. James N. Martin be designated to perform the duties of
Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children until the next
meeting of the Board; his compensation for such service to be fixed by the
Board hereafter, having reference to the services which he shall have performed.
3d. That Professor Ford be authorized to employ an assistant for one
year at a salary of $500 per annum.
The report was accepted and adopted by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper it was voted unanimously that the honorary degree of Doctor of Medicine be
conferred on Professor Henry Sewall.
On motion of Regent Clark it was voted unanimously
that the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws be conferred
on Professor Cleveland Abbe, of Washington, D. C., and
also that the same honorary degree be conferred on William Harold Payne, of Nashville, Tennessee.
On motion of Regent Willett the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
JULY, 1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, July 20, 1888.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock P. M.
Present-The President, Regents Blair, Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Absent-Regent Whitman.
On motion of Regent Draper, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board went into executive session.
Regent Clark, Chairman of the Literary Committee,
moved that Walter Miller, A. M., be appointed Acting
Assistant, Professor of Latin for one year with a salary
of $1,200; and that Joseph H. Drake, A. B., be appointed
Instructor in Latin for one year, with a salary of $900.
The motion of Regent Clark was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the resignation of C. B.
Cady, Acting Professor of Music, was accepted, to take
effect Oct. 1st, 1888.
Regent Willett moved that Frank N. Cole, Ph. D., be
appointed Instructor in Mathematics for one year, at a




238


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


salary of $900; and that Lucius L. Van Slyke, Ph. D., be
appointed Lecturer on General Chemistry in the Literary
Department, for one semester, at a salary of $1,000.
The motion of Regent Willett was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Field, Joseph W. Warren, M.D.,
was appointed Lecturer on Physiology for the ensuing year,
at a salary of $600-(to be provided by Professor Sewall,
under the conditions of his leave of absence. See page
222.)
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark moved that Lewis A. Rhoades, A. M.,
be appointed Instructor in German, for one year, at a salary of $900. The motion was carried by the following
vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett, Chairman of the Finance Committee
moved that Instructor P. R. de Pont be made Assistant
Professor of French, and Registrar of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, with a salary of $1,800.
The motion of Regent Willett was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfleld, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Field moved that the conditions under which
Professors Griffin and Wells, and Assistant Professor
Knowlton, of the Law Department, were appointed at the




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


239


last meeting of the Board (page 230), be modified by
striking out the words " for one year." The Board concurred by a full vote, thereby making these appointments
permanent.
Judge Harriman, E. B. Pond, A. W. Hamilton, and
Otto Eberbach, a committee representing the citizens of
Ann Arbor, were introduced and addressed the Board on
matters relating to the Hospital accommodations of the
University. They desired to inquire whether if the citizens of Ann Arbor should provide a Lying-in Hospital,
the Regents would accept the charge of it and maintain it.
On motion of Regent Field, the Board of Education
of the city were granted permission to connect the High
School building with the University sewer, without expense to the University, provided that the proper connections be made under the supervision of the Steward of the
University.
On motion of Regent Hebard, the Auditing Board
were directed to pay the bill of M. E. Cooley for $106.25,
for services as superintendent of buildings during the year
1887.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
A bill of Professor J. Taft, for $48.50 for desk and carpet furnished for the Faculty room of the Dental College,
was presented by the Secretary, and on motion of Regent
Blair, was laid on the table.
The Finance Committee, through their Chairman,
Regent Willett, presented and read the following report,
together with an estimate of receipts and disbursements
for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1889; and also the
Treasurer's statement of receipts and disbursements from
September 30th, 1887, to June 30th, 1888, which, on motion of Regent Blair, was adopted.




240                 SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: The Finance Committee herewith present their estimate of receipts and expenditures for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1889,
and also the Treasurer's statement of receipts and disbursements for the
time between September 30th, 1887-being the date of his last statement-and
June 30th, 1888, the latter date included.
The books and vouchers of the Secretary and Treasurer have been carefully examined and checked, and the Treasurer's account verified in detail,
and the same are substantially correct.
The balance on hand June 30th, 1888, is 88,327.57, but it will be observed
from the estimate of expenditures for the present fiscal year that, with a
continuance of the stated appropriations by the legislature, there will still
remain a deficit of $8,664.67. It will be noted also that the estimates are
based upon present charges, and consequently that the increase of current
expenses must swell the deficit.
One of the causes of this expected deficiency is the extra expenditure
for buildings, which it seemed impossible to avoid, and which has decreased
our present balance. We may well hope that the coming legislature will reimburse the General Fund for the amount drawn from it for the above purpose. It would seem wise, however, to exercise a careful economy, and so
guard against outlays, which are not indispensable, that if possible, the deficit may be less than estimated.
A large sum is still due from the State upon building appropriations,
but this will all be expended within the next few months in the completion
of the buildings now under construction.  It will be remembered also that
these are special appropriations and cannot be diverted.
While your committee regret that a deficit should appear in the estimates, and urge careful attention to the above suggestion as to economy, we
still believe that this should not be pressed so far as to cripple the University: its necessities must be provided.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES J. WILLETT, Chairman.
MOSES W. FIELD,
CHARLES HEBARD.
ESTIMATE OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR
THE YEAR ENDING JUNE 30th, 1889.
ESTIMATED RECEIPTS.
Balance in  Treasury  July  1st, 1888........................................................$  8,327  57
To be received from the State on the following accounts:
University  Interest...........................................................   38,000  00
1-20th  M ill  Tax...........................................................................  47,272  50
Homceopathic Department..........................................................  12,200 00
University  H ospital.....................................................................  2,500  00
College of Dental Surgery............................  4,000 00
Scientific  Laboratories...............................................................  15,000  00
Contingent............................................,.....................................  6,250  00
Books for  Libraries......................................................   5,000  00
Physical Apparatus....................................................................  1,000 00
Additional Salaries..................................................................  2,500 00
Repairs.....................................................................5..,000  00
$147,050 07




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.                                  241
To be received from other sources as follows:
Students' Fees and Laboratory Deposits...............$ 70,000 00
Sale of Dental Supplies..........................................  3,500 00
Sale of Anatomical Material.................................  200 00
Sales at University Hospital.................................  700 00
Sales at Homceopathic Hospital...........................  300 00
Interest on Bank Deposits............................  1,000 00
----— $ 75,700 00
Amount of Estimated Receipts...........               $222750 07
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS.
For Salaries of Professors, Officers, and Employees:
In College of Dental Surgery...............................    $    8,466 68
"Homceopathic College.......................................        9,200 00
University Hospital........................................         2,180 00
" Homceopathic Hospital..................................            870 00
All other Departments..................................          145,284 00
For Alterations and Repairs............................................    5,838 44
"   Fuel and  Lights............................................     12,000  00
"Current Expenses of General Library...................                    400 00
Grounds.....................................................              500 00
" Postage.......................................................................  800  00
"  Insurance...................................................        1,500  00
"Calendar, Regents' Proceedings, and Miscellaneous  Printing.........................................................  2,500  00
Current Expenses of Museum..................................              500 00
"Supplies for Chemical Laboratory............................            7,000 00
* "   L" Botanical       "..............................        400 00
"        "  Histological    "..............................       300 00, " l     " Physiological..............................        300 00
'"   t"    "( Engineering      ".............................         800 00
"L  "  "(  c Microscopical "..............................       100 00
"" " "         Physical        ".............................        500 00
*"    l " "ZoOlogical          "..............................       400 00
"   "     "  General Chemistry.............................        600 00
"Current Expenses in the Civil Engineering Departm  ent......................................................................  400  00
"Current Expenses in the Astronomical Observatory.............................................................................  300  00
"Current Expenses for Anatomical Material............                     2,500 00
Advertising Literary Department.........................                 300 00
' "Medical              ".............................         200 00
Law                 ".............................        200  00
1" "           Pharmacy         ".............................         200 00
"Transportation of Randolph Rogers Statuary.....                         4,000 00
"Use of Water Privilege..................................               125 00
"Purchasing and Filling Diplomas.............................             650 00
Commencement Expenses........................................            1,200 00
"Taxes and Improvements on Springwells Lots......                           300 00
Purchase of Dental Supplies...................................          2,500 00




242


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


For Current Expenses of University Hospital............
"     "        "       "i - Homceopathic   "...............
L"    "        "       "g Dental Department................
"Purchase of Books for Libraries................................
"Apparatus for Natural Philosophy...........................
"Completion of Scientific Laboratories....................
" Chem   ical  Vault..........................................................
" Pathological Laboratory......................................
Completion of New Boiler House...........................
" Completion of Engineering Laboratory................
'  G oethe  F und.............................................................
Hygienic    Laboratory..................................................
"Miscellaneous Expenses...........................................
Amount of Estimated Disbursements..........
Amount of Estimated Receipt s.....................$ 222,750 07
If the Legislature appropriates as heretofore we shall
expect to receive for expenses of the next fiscal
year, for Dental College...........................................  4,000 00
"   University Hospital.................................  2,500 00
"   Homo. College and Hospita.....................  3,100 00
"   Contingent...............................................  3,125  00
"   Repairs...............................................  1,500  00 -Estimated Deficit.............................................


3,150 00
2,000 00
1,000 00
4,500 00
2,052 40
13,927 19
400 00
500 00
500 00
1,096 03
200 00
1,000 00
2,000 00
$ 245.639 74


-   $ 236,975 07
$   8,664 67


TREASURER'S REPORT.
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN: Herewith I submit my financial report from Oct. 1st,
1887, to June 30th, 1888, in accordance with a law of the last Legislature
which requires all State Institutions to close ann ual reports at that date.
Respectfully,
H. SOULE, Treasurer.
RECEIPTS.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887..........................  $ 21,929 09
From State Treasurer, Acct. of Current Expenses.......$ 62,861 37,,, "       *       "   Special Appropriations.... 54,450 00
"   Goethe Fund-received from interest on deposit..    34 42
Earnings of the University......................... 85,649 43 202,995 22
$224,924 31
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid General. Fund Accounts............................$125,254 68
" Special     " ".............................    91,342 06-$216,596  74
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888....................         8,327 57
$224,924 31




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


243


The following detailed and classified statements exhibit the condition
of the several funds:
GENERAL FUND.
RECEIPTS TO THE GENERAL FUND.
From State Treasurer, Acct. 1-20th Mill Tax..............$ 35,454 37
" '...    "   University Interest......... 27,407 00-8 62,861 37
"    First National Bank of Ann Arbor, Interest.....     2,063 35
"    University Hospital, Sale of Material............   827 23
"    Homceopathic "         " "      "..............   381 85
"    Dental Operating Room, Sale of Material.........    3,504 54
"    Anatomical Material sold to Medical Schools.....      417 15
"    Miscellaneous Sources..............................  1,466 44-$ 8,660 56
"    Students' Fees, Acct. Medical Dep't............... 10,330 00
<(    "       " "( "    Chemical Laboratory........    9,812 87
"     "t        "     " "Literary Dep't................ 22,555 00
"        <" " " Law Dep't................. 14,680 00
c" "            <" "      Dental Dep't.................  3,970 00
""     "          "    "  Homoeopathic Dep't.........  1,980 00
'"    " '           k"   Mechanical Laboratory.....      434 00
<l   (      " " " " School of Pharmacy.........,835 00
"    '"..'      " Key Deposits.................  256 00
t" "             '" " Botanical Laboratory.......          228 00
"(  "     "   t     "   Physiological Laboratory...       66 00
"      (      "     "   General Chemistry..........      353 00
<(" " " " Zoological Laboratory......                       99 00
"         "    t" " Practical Anatomy..........         3,010 00
~"  t       '" " " Microscopical Laboratory.,          177 00
<" "        "(      "   Histological Laboratory.....     878 00
(" "          "t    "   Pathological Laboratory....       85 00
"             " "   '   Diploma Fees...............   4,240 00-$ 76,988 87
$148,510 80
Students' Fees, Total............................ $  76,988 87
t     "    Refunded........................  4,753  62
" " Net....................        72,235  25
DISBURSEMENTS FROM THE GENERAL FUND,
Balance Overdrawn Oct. 1st, 1887.....................              $ 14,879
General Pay Roll, Salaries of Officers and Employees.. $ 91,156 00
Vouchers Paid, Account Students' Fees Refunded.......      4,753 62
tl" " "(           Fuel and Lights.................  8,760 12
cc" " " General Library...............                  458 14
" " " M                useum..........................  119 66
t"l          " 6   Advertising Medical Dep't......      68 76.".     "          "       Law        ".....    61 50
11"     "      "         "       Pharmacy"....     18 00
"      k     "     Insurance.....................     180 00
I" "            k"   Miscellaneous Printing.........     850 42
t"      "      (" Civil Engineering..............        51 00
"     "      "     Chemical Laboratory...........    6,436 76




244


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


Vouchers Paid, Account General Chemistry.............
"'     "     "    Astronomical Observatory.....
"      "     "    I Histological Laboratory........
"          " "  Botanical Laboratory...........
"            "  "  Physical Laboratory...........
("     "        "  Physiological Laboratory.......
("(    "    "     Microscopical Laboratory......
"'   "     "    Mechanical Laboratory.........
"(  "   ' i"      Zoological Laboratory.........,t" " Dental Operating Room......
1"    c"     "    Anatomical Laboratory.......,, "         " t  Anatomical Material..........,'           " "  t Postage..........................,' "c "      <    Pathological Laboratory......
"   t l  "     Calendar........................
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.....................


190 08
23 51
106 20
423 61
26 75
123 25
51 42
675 60
330 96
2,394 24
4,481 13
1,488 64
683 20
342 11
1,000 00-$125,254 68
8,377 06
$148,510 80


SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS.
HOM(EOPATH1C MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887......................... $  1,985 42
From State Treasurer.....................................  6,000 00-$  7,985 42
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees...............$   6,900 00
"  Vouchers for Expenses...............................      158 93
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888........................  926 49-$  7,985 42
HOMCEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE AND HOSPITAL.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer..................................... $ 6,200 00-$ 6,200 00
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Hospital Surgeon and Employees.....$       652 50
"  Vouchers for Expenses...............................   1,729 57
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888......................   3,817 93-8  6,200 00
GENERAL LIBRARY.
Receipts.


Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.........................$
From State Treasurer......................................
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888......................
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses............................$
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL.
Receipts.


109 73
5,000 00
438 79-$   5,548 52
5,548 52-$   5,548 52


Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887......................... $      3,124 77
From State Treasurer......................................         2,500 00 —    5,624 77




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.                                   245
Disbursements,
Salaries of Resident Physician and Employees.......$          1,530 0)
Paid Vouchers for Expenses.............................. 3,468 55
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.......................      626 22-$   5,624 77
CONTINGENT.
Receipts.
From   State Treasurer.....................................$  6,250 00
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888.....................  426 11-$  6,676 11
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn Oct. 1st, 1887..........................     264 12
Paid Vouchers for Expenses............................        6,411 99-    6,676 11
REPAIRS.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.........................$ 1,836 62-$   1,836 62
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..............................$      998 18
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.......................     838 44-$   1,836 62
PHYSIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.........................$  157 12-$  157 12
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses............................$          4 98
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.......................     152 14-$    157 12
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.......... $  3,964 46
From State Treasurer.....................................    4,000 00-$   7,964 46
Disbursements.
Paid Salaries of Professors and Employees..............$      6,283 33
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...............................     1,185 85
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888...............       495 28-$   7,964 46
BOILER HOUSE.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.......................$     7,939 36
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888....................  5,450 66-8 13,390 02
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...............................$ 13,390 02-$ 13,390 02
ENGINEERING LABORATORY.
Receipts.
From State Treasurer.............................. $ 6,750 00-$  6,750 00
2




246                    SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn Oct. 1st, 1887..........................$        953 42
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..............................         4,770 16
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.....................   1,026 42-$  6,750 00
GOETHE FUND.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.....................        $    663 17
Interest on Deposit.........................................        34 42-$     697 59
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses...............................$         259 64
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.....................           437 95-$     697 59
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.
(PHYSICAL LABORATORY.)
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury (Physical Lab.) Oct. 1st, 1887....... $        1,954 10
From State Treasurer....................................         1,000 00-$   2,954 10
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses.............................$  1,901 70
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888......................       1,052 40-$    2,954 10
REMOVAL OF ROGERS' GIFTS.
Receipts.
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888...................... $            4 00-$       4 00
Disbursements.
Balance Overdrawn Oct. 1st, 1887.........................           4 00-$       4 00
SCIENTIFIC LABORATORIES.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887..........................$     8,886 20
From State Treasurer......................................       10,000 00
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888........................         1,003 20-$ 19,889 40
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses..............................        19,889 40-$ 19,889 40
CHEMICAL VAULT.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.......................$         400 00-$     400 00
Disbursements.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.....................           400 00-$     400 00
ADDITIONAL SALARIES.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887....................... $      5,000 00
From State Treasurer..................................   2,500 00
Balance Overdrawn June 30th, 1888.....................   2,500 00-$ 10,000 00




JUNE MEETING, 1888.                              247
Disbursements.
Paid.Pay Rolls............................................$ 10,000 00 — 10,000 00
FORGE AND.-FOUNDRY.
Receipts.
Balance in Treasury Oct. 1st, 1887.........................$ 2,008 74
From State Treasurer......................................  4,250 00-$ 6,258 74
Disbursements.
Paid Vouchers for Expenses............................$ 6,258 74-$  6,258 74
The balances in the Treasury June 30th, 1888, are as follows:
SPECIAL FUNDS.
Repairs.............................................. $  838 44
Dental  College............................................  495 28
University  H ospital.......................................  626  22
Physiological Laboratory..................................  152  14
Homceopathic College.....................................  926 49
Goethe  Fund........................................  437  95
Natural Philosophy.....................................  1,052 40
Chem  ical V ault..........................................  400  00
Engineering Laboratory................................  1,026 42
Homceopathic Medical College and Hospital..........    3,817 93
$ 9,773 27
Less Overdrawn Accts. Contingent......................$  426 11
" " " General Library..................                 438 79
(    "           " t  Removal of Rogers' Gifts.......     4 00
(       '        ". Boiler House................  5,450 66,       ' " " Scientific Laboratories............      1,003 20
" L            "  "Additional Salaries.............  2,500 00-$ 9,822 76
Special Funds Overdrawn..............                 49 49
GENERAL FUND.
Balance in Treasury June 30th, 1888.................             $ 8,377 06
Net Balance..........................             $ 8,327 57
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
submitted the following resolution,which was unanimously
adopted:
Resolved, That the proposition submitted by the Committee of citizens of Ann Arbor, looking to the establishment of a
Hospital, which shall be turned over to the University, and continue in charge of its Department of Medicine and Surgery,
meets with the hearty approval of the Board; and this Board
will apply to the Legislature for the aid which may be necessary
to maintain the Hospital, when it shall be placed under its control.
On motion of Regent Draper, Dr. Herdman was re



248


SPECIAL MIEETING, 1888.


quested to deliver the necessary lectures to the freshman
medical class, during the next year, on the subject of
Anatomy, without additional compensation.
Regent Draper moved that the matter of filling the
chair of the late Dr. Dunster be deferred until the next
meeting of the Board; and that Dr. James N. Martin be
continued in charge of the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, until that time.
The vote on the above resolution resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nay-Regent Willett.
On motion of Regent Draper, the Executive Committee was charged with the duty of selecting some competent person to deliver a course of Lectures on Obstetrics,
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, during the
coming year, provided the vacant chair of Obstetrics and
Diseases of Women and Children be not filled by the
Board before October 1st, 1888.
By permission, Dr. Frothingham addressed the Board
on matters relating to the Department of Medicine and
Surgery.
On motion of Regent Willett, Dr. Wm. A. Campbell
was requested to act as Curator of the Medical Museum
until the October meeting of the Board.
Regent Willett moved that the Auditing Board be
authorized to expend a sum not exceeding $100 in the purchase of material to be used by the Professor of Pathology in original investigation.
The motion of Regent Willett was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Butterfield,
and Hebard.
Absent-Regents Field and Whitman.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING.
1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October 12, 1888.
The Roard of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 7 o'clock P. mr.
Present -The President, Regents Draper, Willett,
Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Absent-Regents Blair, Clark and Hebard.
The meeting was called to order and opened with
prayer by the President.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the minutes of the
last meeting were approved as printed.
The President stated that he had received several
communications, which he suggested should be referred to
the appropriate committees of the Board. There being no
objections the papers took that course.
The President stated that his annual report had been
prepared and was held subject to the pleasure of the
Board. Regent Whitman moved that the report be read
by the President. The motion prevailed.
PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I beg leave to present to you my Annual Report for
the year ending September 30th, 1888.
The following changes in the Faculties have occurred:
At the meeting of the Board in October, 1887, Charles
M. Gayley, A. B., was appointed Assistant Professor of
English and Rhetoric; Fred. G. Novy, M. S., Instructor in




250


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry for one year; Conrad George, M. D., Instructor in Materia Medica for one
year; Assistant Professor Charles N. Jones, A. B., Professor of Applied Mathematics; C. F. Sterling, M. D., Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology in the Honoeopathic Medical College in the place of D. J. McGuire, M.
D., resigned; and Heneage Gibbs, M. D., Professor of
Pathology in the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
The resignation of William H. Payne, A. M., Professor of
the Science and the Art of Teaching was accepted.
At the February meeting the action of the Executive
Committee in appointing N. S. Hoff, D. D. S., Assistant
Professor in the Dental College for the remainder of the
year and in appointing J. F. McCulloch Instructor in Mathematics to serve from November 1st, 1887, to the end of
the year, was approved; B. A. Hinsdale, Ph. D., was appointed Professor of the Science and Art of Teaching; Dr.
Henry F. Lyster was appointed Professor of the Theory
and Practice of Medicine and of Clinical Medicine in the
Department of Medicine and Surgery in the place of Dr.
A. B. Palmer, deceased; and the resignation of J. M.
Schaeberle, Instructor in Astronomy, was accepted.
At the March meeting the resignation of John Dewey,
Ph. D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, to take effect
Oct. 1st, 1888, was accepted; and W. S. Hough, A. M., was
appointed Instructor in Philosophy for the next year.
At the June meeting the resignations of Professor C.
N. Jones, Alfred Iennequin, Instructor in Modern Languages, and Dr. Geo. A. Hendricks, Instructor in Anatomy and Curator of the Medical Museum, were accepted;
Professors William P. Wells, Levi T. Griffin, and Bradley
M. Thompson,'and Assistant Professor J. C. Knowlton,
whose terms had expired, were reappointed to their chairs
in the Law Department, Hon. Henry B. Brown was appointed Lecturer on Admiralty, and Professor M. M. Bigelow, Lecturer on Insurance, for the coming year, and Pro.
fessor Wm. G. Hammond, Lecturer on the History of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1S88.


251


Common Law for the year 1889-90; Richard Hudson was
promoted from the Assistant Professorship to the Professorship of History, and Andrew C. McLaughlin from the
Instructorship to the Assistant Professorship of History;
Barclay T. Trueblood, Ph. D., was appointed Lecturer on
General Chemistry for one year to the Medical classes,
George W. Whyte, Lecturer on Met allurgy for one year;
and the following persons were appointed Instructors for
one year: S. W. Clary, Instructor in German, F. G. Novy,
Instructor in Hygiene and Physiological Chemistry, A. F.
Lange, Instructor in English, W. NV. Campbell, Instructor
in Astronomy, Alexander Ziwet and Charles Puryear, Instructors in Mathematics, and David H. Browne, Instructor in Quantitative Analysis.
Professor Henry Sewall was granted leave of absence
for the coming year.
The title of Prof. Langley was changed to Professor of
General Chemistry and Metallurgy and that of Dr. Arndt
to Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics and Clinical Professor of Diseases of the Nervous System.
At the July meeting t  fll   g the following appointments were
made for one year: Walter Miller, Acting Assistant Professor of Latin, Joseph H. Drake, Instructor in Latin,
Lewis A. Rhoades, Instructor in German, F. N. Cole, Ph.
D., Instructor in Mathematics; Lucius L. Van Slyke, Ph.
D., was appointed Lecturer on General Chemistry for the
Second Semester in the Literary Department, Instructor
de Pont was made Assistant Professor of French and Registrar of the Literary Department; and the resignation of
Calvin B. Cady, Professor of Music, was accepted.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee on Sept.
17, N. S. Hoff, D. D. S., was appointed Assistant Professor
of Practical Dentistry for another year, and Albert A.
Stanley was appointed Professor of Music.
During the year the University has been bereft of four
Professors by death. In no previous year of its existence
has it suffered so heavy affliction.




252


OCTOBER MIEETING, 1888.


On December 20,1887, Dr. A. B. Palmer died alter a
brief period of confinement to his house, though doubtless the fatal disease had been for some time making inroads upon his vigorous constitution. He had been a Professor in the Department of Medicine and Surgery since
1854. He had occupied different chairs in the Faculty, and
had for years been the Dean. A more devoted and industrious teacher has never been in the service of the University. The great purpose of his life seemed to be to secure
the prosperity of the Institution and especially of the Department, for which he labored so faithfully during all the
thirty-four years of his official connection with it.
On March 6, 1888, Byron W. Cheever, Acting Professor of Metallurgy, died after an illness of only a few days
duration. Dr. Cheever was a graduate of the Literary,
Medical and Law Departments of this University. It need
hardly be added that he was a man of varied attainments.
He was rapidly making an enviable reputation as a metallurgist by his explorations and his writings. IHe was an
exacting, faithful and successful teacher.
On May 3, 1888, Dr. Edward S. Dunster, who had
filled the chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and
Children since 1873, yielded to the power of disease
with which in one form or another he had for a long time
contended. As a medical lecturer he had few equals. A
charming personal address, a terse but graceful diction, a
generous literary culture, an abundant learning in his
profession, a lucid and systematic arrangement of his
thoughts, gave a singular attraction to his public instruction. His writings had given him a wide reputation in
his branch of the medical profession. In his mental constitution and his temperament he exhibited in a marked
degree the traits of his distinguished ancestor, the first
President of Harvard University.
On August 16, 1888, Elisha Jones, Associate Professor
of Latin, after an illness of several months, died in Colorado, whither he had gone in the hope that the climate




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


253


might be beneficial to him. He had faithfully served his
Alma Mater for some fourteen years as a teacher of the
Latin and Greek classics. He was an accomplished
scholar and most successful instructor. His sincere, frank
and earnest character commanded the respect and won
the affection of his colleagues and his pupils. The text
books which he had prepared had made his name widely
and honorably known.
The University will hold in grateful recollection the
faithful services of these men who have fallen at their posts
of duty. Fortunate will she be, if she can make their
places good.
Professor C. N. Jones, who turns from academic to
business pursuits, had been connected with the Faculty
since 1874. He had the rather unusual gift of making the
study of mathematics agreeable even to pupils who had
not a special taste for that branch, while at the same time
he held them to effective work.
Professor Payne has accepted the very important
position of President of the State College of Nashville, an
Institution which by the aid of the Peabody Fund devotes
its energies largely to giving southern students a Normal
training of collegiate grade to prepare them for filling important positions us teachers in the Southern States. The
Chair of the Science and the Art of Teaching in this University, to which he was called in 1879, was, I think, the
first chair of the kind established in any American University. The Regents observed that we were annually graduating a considerable number of persons, who without having
had any special training in pedagogy, were called at once to
the responsible duties of principals of high schools or even
of superintendents of the public schools of cities. Our relation to the public school system of the State and to these
graduates seemed to lay on us the duty of giving them
some special and adequate preparation for the important
educational work which they were to undertake. In discharging this duty the Regents were singularly fortunate




254


OCTOBER MEETING, 1S88.


in securing the services of Mr. Payne as Professor. With
no precedents in American Universities to guide him, he
addressed himself to his new work with so much prudence,
skill and enthusiasm  that his instruction proved even
more beneficial to the students and to public education
than the Regents had expected such a course of teaching
would be. The nature and the usefulness of his work
have become widely known, and other leading Universities
have imitated us in establishing chairs for instruction
in pedagogics.
Professor Cady, who has resigned after a connection
of eight years with University, has rendered a most valuable service to us and to this community by elevating the
standard of musical taste and by awakening an enthusiasm for the study of classical music. Upon him fell the
somewhat difficult task of organizing the work of musical
instruction in the University and of convincing men that
such instruction was a proper and useful part of the work
of a University.
Assistant Professor John Dewey has left us to take
charge of the department of philosophy in the University
of Minnesota. He has shown by his ability, learning, and
skill as a teacher that his promotion to a full chair is well
merited, and our best wishes follow him to his new field.
Mr. Hennequin had been a member of the Faculty
since 1872. His linguistic talent and his familiarity with
the principles and the art of dramatic composition should
open to him a successful literary career.
The change in Professor Langley's title indicates an
important and useful change in the organization of the
work in general chemistry, physics and metallurgy. The
instruction in physics in the Literary  Department was
heretofore divided between the professor of physics and
the professor of general chemistry, and the instruction in
the latter branch was rather too limited in extent. On the
other hand the instruction needed in metallurgy does not
require the full time of a professor. Professor Langley,




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


255


who has had large experience in metallurgy, being relieved of the duty of instructing in physics in the Literary
Department, and of lecturing on chemistry to the medical
classes, can give the needed instruction in metallurgy and
enlarge his work in general chemistry in the Literary Department, and the teaching of physics will be left wholly
in the hands of the professor of that branch. Provision
will have to be made for securing lectures on general
chemistry to the medical students. That work will naturally fall to one, who can also teach some of the applications of chemistry or electricity to the medical art.
Professor Sewall having leave of absence for the coming year on account of impaired health, and Professor
Langley, having permission to be absent in Europe on important scientific business, temporary provision has been
made by appointments above named, to supply their
places. Owing to these absences, to resignations of teachers, and to deaths, we have been called to make an unprecedented number of appointments. We trust however
that they have been made with so much care that there
will be no serious interruption of continuity in our work.
The degrees conferred were as follows:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters —                 --          18
Bachelor of Science (Course in Biology)- --        1
Bachelor of Science (Course in Chemistry). ----     4
Bachelor of Science (Course in Mining Engineering) — ---- 1 1
Bachelor of Science (Course in Mechanical Engineering) ---  7
Bachelor of Science (Course in Civil Engineering)-___ -.- 12
Bachelor of Science (Course in General Science) ----  -- 
Bachelor of Philosophy ----.- _                    19
Bachelor of Arts. --- —-                          53
Master of Philosophy —                             2
Master of Arts   ---                               5
Doctor of Philosophy                               2
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery)- 65
Bachelor of Laws —. —. ---- ---- ---            145
Pharmaceutical Chemist -. --- —. --- —- —.-     - 23




256           OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical College) ----- 13
Doctor of Dental Surgery —...., — --          - 37
415
HONORARY DEGREES.
Doctor of Medicine —    ----------------            1
Doctor of Laws —_-                                  2
418
The number who graduated with the Bachelor's degree from the Literary Department was 123, larger by
twenty-two than the number in the class of 1875, which
has heretofore borne the honor of being the largest graduating class. It numbered 101.
The number of students in attendance during the
year was as follows:
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Resident Graduates ---- ----             -    23
Graduates studying in absentia --- — -         36
Candidates for a Degree-              ------- 563
Students not Candidates for a Degree --------  126 - 748
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates —                 -         2
Third Year Students            ---            63
Second Year Students --- —                    108
First Year Students --                       137- 310
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors --.    - -------- -                 154
Juniors --- —------                           181
Special Students                               6 -- 341
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduate --- —          --             1
Second Year Students. —    -—. -26
First Year Students.. —.. --- —               63 -  90




OCTOBER JIEETING, 188o8


257


HOMIEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Students-Total in the College


74


COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Students-Total in the College. — -


104


1667
The number of students was greater than that in
1886-7 by 105. It exceeded that of 1885-6 by 276 and
that of 1884-5 by 382. The largest gain last year, as in
the previous year, was in the Literary Department, 60;
though there was an increase in every Department except
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery, in which
there was a loss of 8. The number of graduates stndying
for higher degrees either here or in absentia continues to
increase, having risen from 42 in the previous year to 59
in the last year.
The number of women in attendance in 1886-7 and in
1887-8 was as follows:


1886-7.
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts_- 175
Department of Medicine and Surgery. ----       51
Department of Law --- —-........ 6
School of Pharmacy --- —----                     2
Homceopathic Medical College ----               27


1887-8.
194
52
2
2
28




College of Dental Surgery --- - --        4      6
265    284
The relative as well as the absolute number of
women in the University continues to increase very
slowly. Last year they formed sixteen and eight-tenths
per cent, this year they form sixteen and nine-tenths per
cent, of the total attendance. Last year they constituted
twenty-five per cent, this year they constitute twenty-five
and seven-tenths per cent, of the entire attendance in the
Literary Department. Twelve of the fifty-three graduates studying for higher degrees during the year are
women.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


The five hundred and sixty-three candidates for bachelors' degrees in the Literary Department are divided as
follows in respect to their courses: Bachelor of Arts, 175 
Bachelor of Philosophy, 112; Bachelor of Science (Course
in General Science) 59; Civil Engineer, 61; Mechanical
Engineer, 33; Mining Engineer, 11; Bachelor of Science
(Course in Chemistry), 10; the same (Course in Biology,)
2; Bachelor of Letters, 100.
Of late years there has been a relative and absolute
increase of the number of studeuts in the English, Engineering and Scientific Courses, but the Classical Course
still attracts a much larger number than any other.
It may be of interest to see in what proportions the
men and in what proportions the women choose the different courses. The following table shows the percentage of
the men, and the percentage of the women, in both cases
candidates for degrees in the Literary Department, who
chose each course during the last year:
Percentage Percentage
of Men.  of Women.
The A. B. Course     -.-. ----      30.7       32.3
The Ph. B. Course                  16.3       31.4
The B. SCourse       -   -   --   13.         9.3
The B. L. Course  ------           15.        27.
The Engineering Courses --- —---    25.        None.
100.       100.
The women have of course no practical inducement
to enter on the engineering courses, though in years past
now and then one has completed one of those courses. It
will be observed that a larger proportion of women than
of men are taking by choice the full classical course.
They are led to this not alone by their literary taste, but
also by the consideration that there is a demand for their
services in teaching Greek in preparatory schools.  As
one fourth of' the men are drawn to the engineering work,
the women naturally form a larger proportion than the
men of the students pursuing the Ph. B. Course, which




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


259


contains Latin and the Modern Languages, and of the B.
L. Course, which also contains the Modern Languages and
allows large liberty of choice in English Literature, History and the Sciences. The B. S. Course which is planned
to train teachers of science and scientific experts attracts a
larger proportion of men than women.
The general order and spirit of study have been, as
usual for some years, most commendable.   One new
offence has however been committed, of which a due regard for the friendly relations of colleges makes it wise to
speak. Three students came here from a reputable college, and received credit for advanced standing in mathematics on the strength of forged certificates, purporting
to be signed by the Professor' of Mathematics in that
Institution. After a few months the forgery was discovered and the offenders were of course expelled. These
cases show that precaution is needed in accepting students
from other colleges and that it may become necessary to
require the official seal of a college on papers that certify
the standing of its students.
During the year there has been a considerable increase
in the numbier of schools which are maintaining the " diploma relation" with us. In 1886-7 there were 43; in
1887-8 there were 58. Among these are ten High Schools
in Chicago and cities and towns adjacent to Chicago.
That is an important field from which we ought to draw
and may properly expect to draw a larger number of
students than we have received in the past. Every year's
experience adds strength to the conviction that few steps
more beneficial both to the University and to the schools
have been taken by the University authorities than the
establishment in 1870 of the "' diploma system" of receiving students. If that system has met with less success in
some other states, it is because the conditions under
which we work do not there exist, or because the precautions which are here observed in making use of the plan
have been there omitted.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


The very welcome pressure on us for instruction in
the studies pursued on the courses leading to higher degrees still continues. It adds a considerable burden to
some of our professors already heavily tasked in conducting the work of undergraduates. But one of the tests of a
successful teacher is found in his power to stimulate pupils
to push their studies beyond the limits of an undergraduate course, and one of his most gratifying rewards comes
from seeing them fired with a zeal to pursue into the
higher ranges the branches which he teaches.
In this connection grateful mention should be made
of the,action of the society of women graduates of various
colleges, known as The Association of Western Alumnae,
for assigning to this University for this year the use of a
Fellowship which they have endowed. The holder will
receive the sum of three hundred and fifty dollars to aid
her in pursuing advanced studies here during this academic year.
Could we have a few endowed fellowships, they would
be of the greatest service in retaining here some of our
most brilliant scholars for the pursuit of special studies.
The Regents of the University of Wisconsin have established eight, yielding four hundred dollars each. The
holders are required to teach certain branches in the
University, if asked to do so. There is some subordinate
work of instruction in which persons of such attainments as
the holders of fellowships ought to be could be made
useful. On this ground perhaps the use of our finds for
the establishment of fellowships could be justified. Fellowships have been endowed in most of the stronger
Universities of the country. They have been especially
useful in training students for professorial chairs in our
colleges. Our graduates have been for some time making
praiseworthy efforts to establish fellowships here. Those
who have been exerting themselves deserve more encouragement from other alumni and friends of the University
than they have received.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


261


The Engineering Laboratory is now nearly completed,
but a considerable addition to the equipment is needed.
The accomodations it affords for shop-work are none too
large for our present number of engineering students.
The new building erected for the Physical and Hygienic
Laboratories is now finished and occupied though not entirely furnished. It is with great satisfaction that we see
at last adequate provision for teaching Physics. The Ilygienic Laboratory is, I think, the first established by any
of our universities. We trust that it will prove of great
service to the State and to the wider public by the investigations, which will there be conducted, of hygienic and
sanitary problems. But already, at the very opening of
instruction in this Laboratory it proves that the lecture
room is not large enough to seat the students, who wish
to attend the lectures.
As our facilities for teaching science and its practical
applications especially to Civil, Mining, Mechanical, Electrical, and Sanitary Engineering have been enlarged, the
demand for such teaching has rapidly increased. Attention has already been called to the fact that one-fourth of
our candidates for degrees are pursuing courses in Engineering. It is probable that the ratio will increase rather
than decrease.
The Department of Medicine and Surgery, although
it has suffered the heavy loss of two of its older professors,
and although it has been somewhat agitated by the continuance of the discussion of the question, of transferring
a part of the medical instruction to Detroit. has had a
fairly prosperous year. But, as I suggested in my last
report, it is very essential to the good of the Department
that the question of removing the clinical teaching be
settled at an early day.  If the removal is wise, the
sooner it is effected the better. If it is not wise, the
sooner that is declared to be the deliberate opinion of the
Board of Regents, the better will it be for the internal
harmony and prosperity of the department. I ask your




262


OCTOBER MEETING, 1858.


indulgence, while I present some considerations on the
subject of the removal.
The substantial import of the proposition which has
been most strongly urged is, as I understand it, that our
medical students, after spending two years here in pursuing what are called the more didactic branches, shall
repair to Detroit where during the third year of their
course they shall receive clinical instruction in connection with the hospitals of that city.
At the outset it is obvious that there are very grave
objections to the plan, which can be outweighed only by
very great advantages to be gained. Let us notice briefly
some of the objections, and then inquire what are the
advantages.
1. It is clear that the administration of the Department will be made more complicated and difficult. There
must be a special organization for the conduct and supervision of the work in Detroit. A considerable number of
professors resident in Detroit, and not teaching on the
University grounds, must be added to the Faculty. Questions not altogether easy to answer, concerning relative
authority and power of resident and non-resident professors and concerning other points are not unlikely to
arise.
2. It will, I think, be more expensive for our students and certainly for such of our resident professors as
have clinical instruction to give. I doubt if students can
find comfortable homes and board at Detroit for the same
rates which are paid by them here, and their incidental
expenses are in my opinion certain to be larger there than
here. The resident professors could not be asked to go
to Detroit to teach without having their additional
expenses borne by the University.
3. The University would probably soon be called to
make more serious additions to its expenditures than that
just referred to. We have been told that Detroit physicians, who would be necessarily added to the Faculty, are




OCTOBER IMEETIG, 1838.


263


willing to serve for little or no compensation. Possibly
that would be the case at the outset. But we have a
pretty large and suggestive experience which indicates
that the University cannot be fortunate enough to secure
the services of competent men for any considerable time
on so favorable terms. Nor is this a fact to be complained
of. We can hardly ask eminent practitioners in Detroit to
take time from their remunerative professional work to
serve us for less proportionate compensation than our resident professors receive.
4. The students would be deprived of the use of the
University library and of the other incideutal advantages
of University life. With no desire to overrate these, I
believe that they have a very considerable value in enlarging and enriching the culture of the students. The undergraduates cannot as a class live here three years without
catching something of the breadth and spirit of a true
university training, which all will adcllit is far better than
a mere narrow, technical, professional training.
5. But what assurance'can we have that the students
will go to Detroit, if we make the proposed arrangement?
The opportunities proposed to be offered for clinical
instruction are now open to the students of the medical
college already established in Detroit. Do these opportunities now attract our students in any considerable
numbers? We know that they do not. Our students
who wish for larger clinical advantages than we have
offered pass by Detroit and go to New York or Philadelphia. Will they not continue to do so? Is there not good
ground to fear that the very object for which the proposed change is suggested will not be attained even if we
make the effort recommended?
6. It seems probable that if a part of the work of
the Department is carried to Detroit, and is successfully
prosecuted there, a strong pressure will be exerted on this
Board to transfer the whole work of the Department there.
The difficulties of divided administration, contrasted with




264


OCTOBER MEETING, 18S8.


the obvious advantages of concentration and unity, and
the larger opportunities for remunerative practice of the
professors in Detroit, the possibility, not to say the proba
bility, that at no distant day a majority of the Faculty
must be residents of that city, will inevitably produce a
strong influence in that direction. The discussion of the
subject would renew in the college the unrest which has
been caused during the last few years by the debate upon
the expediency of removing the clinical instruction to
Detroit. To some the transfer of the whole work of the
Department to that city may seem desirable in itself. To
me it seems most undesirable, whether we consider the
interests of the Department or of the whole University.
Statistics show beyond dispute that the Department by its
growth has contributed most powerfully to the growth of
the other Departments, as they have contributed to its
strength. Medical students who have pursued their course
here on the ground have been instrumental in turning
many students hither for work in other Departments as
well as in their own, and in turn the students in other
Departments have commended the Medical School to their
neighbors and friends. But if it should ever come to pass
that the medical students do all their work in Detroit,
they will have none of the pride or interest in the general
work of the University which now animates them and
leads them to urge men to come here for collegiate or legal
education. In fact they will have no opportunity to learn
from personal observation and experience anything of the
life and spirit of the University. On the other hand the
students in the other Departments have here become
familiar enough with the work of the Medical Department to direct the attention of their friends to it; but
their knowledge of it and interest in it would be far less,
if it were transferred to Detroit.
7. It must further be remembered that every argument which can be urged for removing the clinical instruction in the Department of Medicine and Surgery to De



OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


265


troit is equally valid for removing the Homoeopathic
Medical College there also. A large hospital, to be placed
in charge of Homoeopathic physicians, is in process of
erection in that city. We may be sure that there would be
a demand on us from friends of the Homoeopathic College
that their students should have facilities for clinical
instruction in Detroit, if the arrangement proposed should
be made. This would be urged, and with justice, on the
ground that both schools should be treated alike. The
result would be that for a time at least we should have
four medical schools or parts of schools to manage and
maintain. Indeed it is not certain that in due time there
would not be a demand by the dentists that a part at least
of the work of the Dental College should also be transferred to Detroit, since the work of the dental students is
closely associated with that of the medical students,
since they must receive some instruction in surgery, and
since also the Faculty could then be enlarged by the addition of Detroit practitioners who could assist in clinical
teaching. Does not all this mean a dangerous disintegration of life and calamitous diffusion of force?
8. At present there is not a little valuaole assistance
rendered by the Departments to each other, which would
have to be surrendered in large degree or altogether.
Professors in one Department give brief courses of lectures
in one or more of the other Departments, and so supplement or enrich the instruction. This would be much
more difficult, if it were at all practicable, in case of the
disintegration suggested.
9. There is danger that the branch in Detroit and
the fragment of the school here would soon come to have
rival interests. It would be natural that the Detroit
branch, having perhaps a larger number of professors
connected with it and and emphasizing the value of its
share of the work, which being clinical, impresses the
public and impresses students more than the dryer, but
not less important, didactic work, should claim more
2




266


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


attention and more help from the Regents than the portion of the school which is here. At any rate, a stroug
and troublesome difference of opinion on that point and
on other points might easily spring up.
10. Is it not quite possible that if the Department,
either in whole or in part, should be planted in Detroit,
it might receive a less hearty support' from the State? Is
it not altogether conceivable that the legislators would
say? "Detroit has asked for the Department, Detroit is
quite able to support it. Let her take care of it." Small
and lacking in wealth as this city is, we have more than
once heard from legislators when we asked for help the
inquiry: "What has Ann Arbor done? Why does she
not show some interest in the University?" How much
more emphatically should we hear the inquiry concerning
the populous and wealthy city of Detroit?
These objections to the proposed scheme, I think it
must be confessed, are serious. Are they outweighed by
'the advantages which may be secured by the adoption ol
it? What are the advantages which are promised?
1. It is said that the hospitals of Detroit which
would be made accessible to our students, furnish more
cases and more valuable cases than our hospital to illustrate the instruction in surgery, gynecology and obstetrics.
This is true. But it is possible to overrate the advantages
which they offer in comparison with those offered here.
If I am correctly informed, the average number of
patients in Harper Hospital and in St. Luke's Hospital,
which are the principal ones on whose help we should
depend, is only two or three times as great as the number
the University Hospital accommodates, and a considerable
proportion of the persons in the Detroit hospitals are
private patients, who would not be brought before the
classes. When a committee of this Board visited Harper
Hospital at the invitation of citizens of Detroit some
months ago, they were surprised to find that it had not
then as many patients as the University Hospital. The




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


267


statement which the President of the Michigan Medical
Association, a practitioner in Detroit, made in his address
at the last meeting of that body, indicates that the condition of the hospitals in that city leaves much to be
desired.  He said, "'there is no hospital in this city
(Detroit) which is properly equipped, or which has money
enough to pay its running expenses without financial
embarrassment.' It must be remembered also that the
Detroit hospitals cannot be placed under the control of
this Board. Is there not a possibility that under the
influence of some rival medical school embarrassments
might arise in our relations with one or more of the hospital boards?
2. It is argued that the transfer of a part of our
medical work to Detroit would awaken a deep interest
in the University in that city and would even secure large
benefactions fiom its citizens. The interest and the benefactions would be most acceptable, and we are glad to
say that the past generosity of some of the citizens of
Detroit to the University makes such a result seem not
improbable.  But thus far no distinct propositions of
assistance have been made to this Board.
3. It is predicted that the transfer would lead to the
dissolution of any medical schools now existing in Detroit,
and would prevent the establishment of new schools.
Thus concentration in medical teaching in the State would
be secured. It is also affirmed that the students who now
attend the Detroit schools would be added to our number.
I see no sufficient ground for assuming that there
will be no other medical schools than ours at Detroit,
especially if we do not remove the whole Department
there. Wherever there are aspiring physicians in a city
as large as Detroit, and particularly where medical
schools have existed for some years, certain practitioners
generally find it conducive to their own interests to
join in carrying on a medical school. We can hardly
expect that the accomplished physicians of Detroit, who




268          OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.
have had the enterprise to conduct two medical schools
for years, will refrain from maintaining a school because
of our giving clinical instruction in Detroit to our senior
class.
Nor do I see any good reason to expect that if the
schools in Detroit were abandoned, we should receive any
considerable number of their students. For their classes
are largely made up of those, who wish a short course in
medicine, and are not willing to take our three years'
coursp. They would be more likely to turn to somle school,
which gives a degree on the completion of a briefer course.
So far as I know, the advantages here considered are
all which have been suggested as likely to accrue from the
plan before us. It is for this Board to decide whether they
so far outweigh the objections named as to make the adoption of the plan wise. My own conviction is that they do
not, and therefore that it is inexpedient to transfer any
part of our work to Detroit.
The experience of the European Universities which
are established in comparatively small cities sustains the
view that it is not essential to the success of a medical
school that the clinical instruction should be given in some
great city, apart from the University. What. would be
thought at Tiibingen or Bonn or Jena or Wtirzburg or
Oxford of the proposition to divide the work in medicine
and carry a part of it away from the rest and from the
University? Yet these Universities and others situated
in small cities are not without a good reputation for instruction in medicine and surgery. So far as I have heard,
the experiment of making such a division of the medical
work as is here proposed has not been attempted anywhere. So unprecedented a step should not be made without far clearer and more cogent evidence than has yet
been presented that it will be beneficial to the Department
and to the University.
But meanwhile let the statement be emphasized, that
if we are to depend solely on our own hospitals for aid in




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.             269
clinical instruction, we should have the means of making
them as good as possible. It is most desirable to have a
lying-in hospital. Our hospital buildings were not intended for long use. On every account we could wish that
new buildings for hospital purposes might be erected on
some site a little removed from the campus. If a suitable
hospital should be built by the State, many patients now
remaining in the county alms-houses, where they do not
receive the care of skilled surgeons and opthalmologists,
could be sent here for treatment, and soon restored to a
condition of self-support. It would doubtless be a real
economy for the counties, which may now be burdened
with the cost of maintaining through life persons who have
curable maladies, to send such patients here. To some extent they do this now. But with ampler accommodations
more patients could be cared for, and the interests of the
counties, of the patients, and of our medical school would
at one be subserved.
The Homceopathic Mledical College has had a prosperous year. It has enjoyed internal harmony and freedom from attack from without. We have reason to hope
that the profession in the State are now generally prepared
to give it that hearty support, which is essential to its
highest usefulness.
The work of the Law Department has been carried on
in a very satisfactory manner. The experiment of em
ploying a few non-resident lecturers for more or less extended courses of instruction has been tried with good results. Professor Hammond, Dean of the St. Louis Law
School, gave a course of fifteen lectures on the History of
the Common Law, Hon. H. B. Brown, United States District Judge, a course of twelve lectures on Admiralty Law,
and Professor M. M. Bigelow, of the Law School of the
Boston University, lectured during a large part of the second semester on Equity. These gentlemen will hereafter
continue their lectures. The standard of work required of
the students has been materially raised during the last




270


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


two or three years, and the examfiinations for graduation
are more stringent than they ever were before.
The School of Pharmacy continues to deserve and to
enjoy its pre-eminent reputation for thoroughness. By
the courage with which its standard of work has been
maintained and from time to time raised, it has been
largely instrumental in elevating the standard of other
schools in the country.
For the accommodation of this school and of our
great number of students of chemistry, drawing from
every Department of the University except the Law Departmrnt, there is urgent need of another enlargement of
the Chemical Laboratory.
The Dental College in spite of the continual and rapid
increase of requirements for graduation, attracts larger
and larger classes every year.  Three years' study, a
longer course than that in any other Dental School, is now
essential to graduation. The course will be graded. This
elevation of our standard is warmly approved by the best
members of the Dental Profession in the country, and is
heartily commended in Europe, where the reputation of
the School is well established.
An enlargement of the building occupied by the Dental College can not much longer be delayed, unless we deliberately refuse to receive well prepared applicants for
admission. Serious inconvenience in giving instruction to
our students was caused last year by the inadequacy of our
accommodations. It is a most embarrassing, problem how
to care for the larger number in attendance now.
The most.important facts concerning the collections
in our Museums are these:
Another shipment of the Rogers Statuary has been
received from Rome. It consists of colossal figures, including the statues of Lincoln and Seward, those of Nelson and Lewis on the monument at Richmond, Va., the
symbolical figures of Michigan on the Detroit battle monment, America on the Rhode Island monument, Victory




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


271


on the Worcester monument, and the Sentinel on the Cincinnati monument. The casts of the bronze doors of the
Capitol at Washington are yet to be sent. When they are
received the collection will be complete, a worthy monument to the genius and the generosity of the artist. The
value of these casts, especially of the casts of the statues,
busts, and medallions of the great historic characters of
the Civil War, will increase with the lapse of years. No
collection worthy to be compared with it in this particular is found in any other University, if indeed there is any
in the country. Our embarrassment in finding suitable
places for the colossal figures just received strongly suggest our need of a more spacious Art Gallery than we now
possess.
Our Museum of Zoology is about to receive some important additions, the fruits of a scientific expedition
which Professor Steere, accompanied by one of our recent
graduates and by two of our undergraduates, has made
during the past year to the Philippine Islands. It is believed that these naturalists have found a considera'ile
number of new species of birds and even some of miammals, and have obtained evidence which may materially
modify accepted theories concerning the distribution of
the fauna of that interesting group of islands.
From the Librarian's report it appears that the total
number of volumes in all the libraries is now 67,759, and
of pamphlets 13,892. During the year we have added to
our collection 5,361 volumes and 1,278 pamphlets. The
most important gifts were the Dorsch library, presented
by the widow of the late Dr. Dorsch, of Monroe, in compliance with his wishes, 1,676 volumes and 148 pamphlets;
a gift of 356 volumes and 90 pamphlets, mainly on Irish
history, by George C. Mahon; and a complete set of
Liebig's Annalen. presented by E. C. Hegeler. The total
number of periodicals regularly received is 242. The
volumes drawn during the year numbered 94,168. It is
doubted if any other library is so much used.




272


OCTOBER MEET1NG, 1888.


Our annual finance report shows how severely our
needs press upon our resources. It is only by the greatest
watchfulness anct economy, by the unpleasant refusal to
grant many reasonable requests for help from    various
departments of teaching, that we are able to accomplish
our work with so small an outlay. We greatly need some
provision for adding to our general fund.   No similar
institution of a magnitude comparable with ours is carried
on without a much larger outlay than we make. Now,
as always, we must rely on the State for aid. We entrust
our fortunes to her appreciation and generosity with
unabated confidence.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
On motion of Regent Field, the report of the President was accepted, and ordered printed in the minutes,
and it was directed that the usual number be printed in
pamphlet form for the use of the Board, and of the University.
A  call vote was taken on Regent Field's motion,
which resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
The following annual report of the Librarian was accepted, and, on motion of Regent Willett, it was ordered
printed in the minutes.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
Gentlemen-There were belonging to the University Sept. 30,
1888, 67,759 volumes, 13,892 unbound pamphlets, and 264 maps.
Of these there were in the General Library 53,837 volumes,
12,776 unbound pamphlets and 264 maps; in the Law Library
9,783 volumes; in the Medical Library 3,707 volumes, and 913
pamphlets; and in the Library of the Dental College 432 volumies.
During the year 245 periodicals have been regularly received,
as follows: In the General Library, 170; in the Medical Library,
55; in the Law Library, 7; and in the Library of the Dental
College, 13.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


273


THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The additions to the General Library during the year have been
4,866 volumes and 1,430 pamphlets. Of these 1,639 volumes and
203 pamphlets were purchased, 2,915 volumes and 1,430 pamphlets presented, and 312 volumes the result of binding periodicals.
The total amount of all bills certified to by me, or my assistant, for purchases made, was $4,718.24. Of this sum. 23,696.49
were for books and pamphlets, 576,6() were for subscriptions to
periodicals, and $445.15 for binding and mending. In addition
to these sums which were paid from the special Library fund,
$60.00 were paid from the current expense fund for catalogue
cards, tickets for readers, etc.
The year was an unusually fruitful one in gifts. Almost
3,000 volumes, (2.915); and 1,227 pamphlets were the gifts of individuals, of governments, and of learned societies. MoA(re than
two-thirds of the volumes and many of the pamphlets were given
by two persons, viz: Mrs. Dr. Edward Dorsch, in accordance
with the wish of her late husband, Dr. Edward Dorsch, of Monroe, Michigan, and George C. Mahon, Esq., a resident of Ann
Arbor when the gift was made, and now of Detroit.
I will not rehearse the history of the acquisition of the
"Dorsch Library." That history was fully set forth to you at the
meeting in June. No indication of the character of the collection was given then, however, or has been given at any other
time, and I think it proper that I should refer briefly to some
features of it in this report.
As might be expected from the nationality of Dr. Dorsch,
there are many books in the German language-very nearly, if
not quite, two-thirds of the whole number.  And, as might be
expected from a man of his linguistic acquirements there are
books in languages other than German and English-the languages of his native, and of his adopted country. WVorks in
French appear frequently: and occasionally, in purely literary
forms of composition, works in Italian and Spanish. The briefest inspection of the collection, however, shows that the doctoi
retained to the last a great fondness for his native tongue. Very
many of the books in the German are translations from the English and other modern languages with which he seems to have
been familiar.
All departments of literature are represented-most fully
those of pure Literature, (literature in the special sense of the




274


OCTOBER MIEETING, 1888.


word) and Art. In the former class there is a good representation of the best ancient authors. Here, too, the translations into
German are frequent. Homer appears in German hexameters,
and the page is a pleasant one to look upon.  There is, also, a
good representation of the best modern authors, in the original,
or translated into German, as already stated.
In Art the collection is especially strong. There are handbooks, treatises, histories, and catalogues with excellent reproductions, and descriptions, of the contents of great galleries.
The following are particularly worthy of mention: London Art
Journal, 1851-1854 inc., and 1865-1882 inc., H. Roux Aind's Herculaneum and Pompeii, 8vols., Jiennicke's Grundriss der Keramik, 1879.
Theology and Philosophy are represented, but not by the
volumes that ordinarily constitute collections of this kind in
libraries. They are largely discussions of venerable and " outworn creeds," and elucidations of ancient and mediaeval mysteries, Their value is great to the student of the origin of things.
Their presentation is a piece of great good fortune to us, for they
are both rare and costly.
In general Science the best modern writers are represented
to some extent.  One work of great value, but belonging to a
single department of science, is Brehm's Thierleben, 2nd. Ed.,
10 vols.
In Medicine, the Doctor's own subject, there are about 150
volumes. Besides the treatises required by the general practitioner, there are complete sets of two very important works, viz.:
Win. Wood & Co.'s, edition of Zieris-en's Cyclopredia of the
Practice of Medicine, 18 vols., and index, and Eulenburg's RealEncyclopcedie der Gesammten Heilkunrde, 15 vols.
There are a good many works of reference, of all descriptions,
that we have not hitherto possessed, and that will be very useful
to us. Two are specially important, viz:
llhlstrirtes Conversations-Lexicon, 8 vols., 1870-80, and Gesqhichte der Erfindungen, edited by Bollner, Mothes and Luckenbacher, 2nd edition, 7 vols., and Ergdnzgnys-Bland, 1872-75.
The Library is to be congratulated upon this large and very
valuable accession. We shall endeavor to justify the donor's selection of a repository for his books by a tender care of them,
and by conforming to his expressed wishes in the disposition
we make of them.
The books presented by Mr. Mahon, 355 in number, are




OCTOBER JMEETlVNG, 1SSS.


275


about equally divided between Irish History, and practical
works on Mining, Metallurgy and Geology.
As regards the collection on Irish History it will be hard to
match it in extent in this country, and harder yet to match it
in the intrinsic value of the particular works.
Mr. Mahon is a profound student of Irish History and Literature, and in the accumulation of books in these directions,
rejected all ephemeral matter. This is not the first gift from
Mr. Mahon. In 1882 there was received from him him a set of
the Transactions, and also of the Proceedings of the Royal Irish
Academy, to that date.
Other benefactors are E. C. Hegeler, Esq. of La Salle, Illinois, who, as reported to you at the March Meeting, contributed
$275.00 towards the purchase of a complete set of Liebig's
Annalen; Dr. L. (4. Doane, of New York City, a graduate of the
Medical Department, of the class of '71, who has contributed
very considerably to the dramatic collection, and has also given
many miscellaneous books and pamphlets; and Ex Professor C.
N. Jones, who, in leaving Ann Arbor, gave upwards of 100 vols.,
many of which are valuable additions to the library.
It would swell this report to vast proportions to name all
who have deserved, and have received, our thanks for timely
and valuable gifts. A record of all gifts, and their sources, is
kept, to which reference can at any time be made.
The various statistics that show the amount of reading done
during the year indicate a continuance in the growth of the use
of the Library.
The number of books drawn out and used in the Reading Room, was-                          ------  91,712
The number drawn out by Professors,.2,456
A total of,  -- -- -----     -      94,168
Tickets of admission to the book-room were granted to 46
persons, who made 783 visits to the shelves. During the two semesters 249 students were admitted to the Seminary Rooms189 to the west room for the study of English Literature, German Literature, Literary Criticism, and Art, and the Greek,
Latin, Gothic, and Sanscrit languages, and 60 to the East Room
for the study of History, Political Economy, and Philosophy.
The books are generally in good condition. The great use to
which many of the prescribed ones are subjected wears them
out rapidly. They are mended as long as mending will avail,




276


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


and then they are laid aside. I look with a kind of pride on
those books worn out by constant and honest use.-They are in
the nature of trophies —indisputable evidences of achievement.
More than at any time before, the library force was last year
disabled by sickness. On this account much less work was accomplished than was planned. The transcription of the Author
portion of the Catalogue was completed, and the new Catalogue
case brought into use in the Reading Room. T The progress
made in the transcription of the subject portion, however, was
not great. It remains as the important work of the year upon
which we have entered.
It is with regret and much sympathy with her, personally,
that I report the serious illness of Miss Morrish, and her resignation of her position in the Library. Miss Morrish became
connected with the Library in June, 1884, and since June, 1885,
she has been the one on whom the clerical work mainly fell.
She found herself compelled to cease work early in the spring,
but left the Library with the hope of a restoration to health that
would enable her to return for a portion of the vacation, and for
the present year. The expected improvement did not come,
however, and in June her resignation was sent to the President.
I wish in this connection to express my hearty commendation
of her service. All her duties were performed with conscientious
care, and her spirit was excellent.
It has been apparent for some time that with the increase of
the material of the Library, and the extension of its field of
usefulness, there should come a readjustment of the work that
would better meet the new demands. With this end in view
the Library Committee of the Faculty propose that, in providing
for Miss Morrish's work, such a readjustment be effected. They
recommend that Mr. F. N. Scott of the class of '84, and last
year, and one year previously, general assistant, be made Assistant Librarian for one year at $900, and that a suitable person
be employed as general assistant at $300 per year. Inasmuch
as the salary of Mr. Scott is $600, and that of Miss Morrish was
$600, this arrangement will leave the cost of administration unchanged.
If this is done the skilled labor, and the responsibility, that
the necessities of the case had divided between two persons, will
be devolved upon one, with increased compensation, and the
unskilled labor that the same necessities had divided between




OCTOBER SMEETING, 1888.


277


the same two persons will be devolved upon one, with less compensation.
The changes that have already been affected in the library
force, for the year, are as follows:
Mr. F. A. Leslie, and Mr. W. G. Adams are desk attendants
in the place of Mr. F. A. Waples and Mr. A. H. Hopkins. Mr.
A. H. Hopkins and Mr. Yeijiro Ono have charge of the Seminary Rooms in place of Mr. F. F. Lehman and Mr. P. M. Hickey.
THE OTHER LIBRARIES.
The Medical Library had assigned to it for the year 1887,
$1,000.00 of the special appropriation for libraries, for that year.
This made it possible to buy some sorely needed books, as well
as to carry the periodicals and do the binding and mending.
The two last things are all that can be accomplished with the
usual, annual appropriation of $500.00.
The additions for the year were 260 volumes, and 51 pamphlets. Of these 160 volumes were purchased, 25 volumes and 51
pamphlets were presented, and 75 volumes were the result of
binding.
The total of bills certified to by the librarian for this year, is
829.08. The directions of the expenditures were as follows:
For books- -    - -  -          --—.-. ---- $ 524.40
For periodicals ------  ---. — --. ----__  227.03
For binding and mending -- ---------               77.65
Total --- —---------    -        --- $ 829.08
To the Law Library there have been added during the year
218 volumes, and to the Library of the Dental College, 17 volumles.
In my report last year I said that " the University Library
is the Public Library of the State for the increase of knowledge.'
I repeat it in this report. I do not mean-no one, I trust, will
understand me as meaning —that knowledge is not increased
by the other libraries, whether they are public, or proprietary
libraries. But I am sure that I am right in saying that the
especial purpose for which they exist is the diffusion of knowledge —the distribution of the general fund. That through facilities offered by them knowledge is increased, I do not doubt;
but it is for its diffusion that they are particularly equipped.
Now the especial purpose for which the University Library ex



278


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


ists is the increase of knowledge —to add to the general fund by
discovery and appropriation —thisfirst, diffusion second.
In its equipment then, the University Library must differ
not a little from the Public Library. It needs especially the results of all investigation-investigation of mind and investigation of matter. It needs all the books which record the application of principles in the regulation of human society, and all
those which record the application of natural forces to production in the industrial world. And then there are the liberal
arts to be taught —the aesthetic spirit in man to be guided,
strengthened, cultivated. The modern University is a more
practical institution than that from which it is descended, but it
is still the seat of the literae humnaniores, as when the apostles of
the Renaissance taught humanism from the chairs of the nlediaeval Italian Universities, The University Library needs, then,
in addition to what I have already enumerated, the classics of all
the languages, the dead and the living —all the best things of
the world, said in the best way. These are "the True, the
Beautiful and the Good " —the food on which the aesthetic nature must feed if it would grow.
Therefore it would seem that to gather these is the peculiar
function of the University Library, both in general as regards all
Universities, and in particular as regards our own. Is our Library
equipped for a proper discharge of this function? No, it has
only the nucleus of such an equipment. The University, by its
phenomenal growth has won, and maintains, a place, in numbers in attendance, and in the variety of instruction, abreast of
the oldest and strongest Institutions of Learning in the Country.
But in this particular and most important point of the possession of books, it is behind all its comnanions —behind in the
number of volumes possessed, behind in the means of annual
increase. Neither have we great libraries in our immediate
neighborhood as Harvard and Columbia have. In the competition for students a comparison of library statistics hurts us,
therefore, but it is not that we suffer in this comparison that is
the grievous thing. The grievous thing is that every day, in
every department, in the work that is carried on, some book is
needed that we do not have, and for lack of money, cannot get.
Whence is to come our help? Is it to come from the Legislature? If the members of that body can be made to see with
clear vision, yes. Any plan that the Board may devise for securing an appropriation for the library larger than those recently




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


279


made, will be joyfully received here, and all effbrts to carry the
plan out to a successful issue cordially seconded.
And at a time when men and women of wealth are giving
money with a liberality hitherto unknown, in very many instances either to found, or to enlarge libraries —and when benefactors have begun to flow in upon ourselves, may we not hope
that help is to come from private sources also?
I am very confident that help from both of these sources
waits upon a fuller knowledge of our necessities.
I cannot believe that I am over sanguine or foolishly credulous in this. The teaching of experience as I read it, as I hear
it, and as I prove it, is that we must work wisely and diligently, and that as our faith is, so our reward shall be,
Respectfully submitted,
RAYMOND C. DAVIS,
October 12, 1888.                          Librarian.
The Executive Committee submitted the following report of their action since the last meeting of the Board.
At a meeting of the Executive Committee, held on September 17th, there were present Regents Blair and Whitman and
President Angell.
On the recommendation of Professor Prescott, Charles P.
Beckwith, B. S., was appointed Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry for the coming year at the salary of $250, and Julius 0.
Schlotterbeck, Ph. C., Assistant in Pharmacognosy and Pharmacy for the ensuing year at a salary of $192.
John F. Abbott, M. D., was, on the suggestion of Professor
Maclean, appointed for one year Assistant to the Professor of
Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in the Department of Medicine
and Surgery at the salary of $100.
N S. Hoff, D. D. S., was appointed for the ensuing year
Assistant Professor of Practical Dentistry at the salary of last
year, $1,200.
Albert A. Stanley was appointed Professor of Music in the
place of Professor Cady, resigned, at the salary of $1,200.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.
On motion of Regent Willett, the report of the Executive Committee was accepted and adopted by the following vote:




o80


O CTOBER MEE TNG, 1888


Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That it is neither practicable nor desirable to remove any portion of the Medical Department to Detroit, or
elsewhere; and that it is the settled policy of the Board that the
University shall be maintained in entirety at Ann Arbor as it
is at present established.
Regent Field moved to lay the resolution on the table.
The vote resulted as follows:
Aye-Regent Field.
SNays-Regents Draper, Willett, Whitman, and Butterfield.
The motion to lay on the table was declared lost.
Regent Draper said that while he was entirely willing
to vote for the resolution of Regent Willett, he felt bound
to say that he would at any time favor the establishment
of a post-graduate Course at Detroit.
The vote on the. original resolution was then taken
with the following result:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Whitman, and Butterfleld.
Nays-Regent Field.
The following communication from the Secretary of
the University Senate, was read by Regent Whitman:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
I beg leave to call your attention to a copy of a resolution
adopted by the University Senate at a meeting held on the 8th
inst., as follows:
Resolved, That in the opinion of the Senate it would be desirable for the Board of- Regents so to amend the by-laws as to
change the time of the beginning of the spring recess from  the
Friday evening before the last Wednesday in March to the Friday evening before the third Wednesday in April.
Very respectfully Yours,
WM. H. PETTEE,
OCTOBER 12, 1888.       Secretary of the University Senate.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


281


Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That Chapter XV., relating to the division of the
University year, be amended in the following particulars:
(I.) Section 1 to be amended to read as follows:
" The fiscal year of the University, except for the
payment of salaries, shall begin on July first of each
year and end on June thirtieth of the following year."
(II.) In Section 2, for the first sentence the following to be
substituted:
" In all Departments of the University the regular
work of the year shall begin on the first day of October,
unless that day fall on Sunday, and then it shall begin
on the second day of October."
(III.) In Section 2; lines 6 and 7, the words " third Wednesday
in April " to be substituted for the words "last Wednesday in March."
(IV.) In Section 2, lines 7 and 8, in place of the words " The
year shall end at the Commencement in June " the following to be substituted:
" The year shall end at the Annual Commencement,
which shall occur on the Thursday following the last
Wednesday in June."
(V.) Sections 3, 4, 5, and 6 to be stricken out.
(VI.) Sections 7, 8, and 9 to be renumbered, respectively, 3, 4,
and 5.
On motion of Regent Willett, the resignation of Miss
Ida A. Morrish, Assistant in the Library, was accepted.
On motion of Regent Willett, Mr. Fred N. Scott was
appointed Assistant Librarian for one year at a salary of
$900; and the Library Committee of the Faculty were authorized to employ a suitable person as general assistant
at a salary of $300.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
The Faculty of Law recommended that the degree of
Bachelor of Laws be conferred on George Henry Gable,
he having completed all the requirements for said degree.
3




282


OCTOBER.1fEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Willett, the President was authorized to confer the degree as of June 29, 1888, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of Law.
The following communication from the Faculty of the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, was presented:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: —I have the honor to report that the Faculty of
the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts have recommended the following persons to your H.onorable Body for their
respective degrees, viz:
(a) Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering), HENRY EDWARD WHITAKER.
(b) Bachelor of Arts, STERLING PARKS.
(c) Master of Arts, CARLos BINGHAkM COCHRAN, A. B.
Respectfully Submitted,
ANN ARBOR, October 8th, 1888.  P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
On motion of Regent Willett, it was voted that the
degrees be conferred upon the persons named in the foregoing communication in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
On motion of Regent Draper, Dr. Win. A. Campbell
was appointed Assistant to the Professor of Anatomy, at
a salary of $500, and Curator of the Medical Museum at
a salary of $100, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, Mr. John D. Riker was
continued as Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, for the
year 1888-89, at his previous salary $192 a year, and Moses
Gomberg was appointed Assistant in Organic Chemistry
for the year 1888-89, at a salary of $192, by the following
vote:




OCTOBER MiEETING, 1888.


283


Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper, Chairman of the Medical Committee,
moved that Dr. George H. Chaffee be appointed Assistant
to the Professor of Theory and Practice of Medicine, in
the Medical Department, for one year, at a salary of $100.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Dr. H. R. Arndt, Professor of Materia Medica, and
of Nervous Diseases in the Homceopathic College, asked
for and obtained leave of absence for the first semester,
without loss of salary, the other members of the Faculty
volunteering to do his work during his absence.
On motion of Regent Draper, Dr. Geo. H. Conklin
was appointed Assistant to the Professor of Histology and
Microscopy for one year at a salary of $300 by the following vote.
Ayes —Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
The request of the Homoeopathic Medical Faculty
that the Hospital Steward be authorized to provide for
and maintain five obstetrical cases in the Hospital for the
instruction of the present senior class was, on motion of
Regent Draper, laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Draper the sum of $35 was appropriated for the purpose of printing one thousand copies
of the address delivered by James L. High, LL. D., in
June last before the Law graduating class and the Alumni.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
The Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science




284


OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


and the Arts recommended that the requirements in Mathematics for graduation in the Bachelor of Letters course be
made thrce-fifths of a Full Course instead of two-fifths as
heretofore; and on motion of Regent Willett their recommendation was adopted.
The request of the Engineering Department for an
appropriation of $2,800 for the purchase of new instruments was laid on the table until the next meeting of the
Board.
Regent Whitman moved that the appointment of Dr.
N. S. Hoff in the Dental Department be made permanent.
Carried.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board went into
Executive Session.
Professors Steere, Taft, Prescott and Vanghan addressed the Board on the needs of their several departments.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Auditing Board
were authorized to employ a pattern maker for the Engineering Laboratory for this year only, at a salary not exceeding $3 per day, by the following vote.
Ayes —Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper moved that the salary of Prof. Chas.
H. Stowell be made $2,000, which was, on motion of Regent Butterfield, laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Field, Doctor Herdman's title
was changed to " Professor of Practical Anatomy, and of
Diseases of the Nervous System."
Regent Whitman moved that Dr. J. N. Martin be continued in charge of the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases
of Women and Children in the Medical Department for
the first semester, and that his salary be at the rate of




OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.             285
$2,000 a year, including his work in the Dental Department.
The motion of Regent Whitman was carried by the
following vote.
Ayes-Regents Draper, Willett, Field, Whitman and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper moved that the matter of providing
additional assistance in the Dental Department be deferred until the next meeting of the Board. Carried.
On motion the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
DECEMBER, 1888.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
WEDNESDAY, Dec. 12, 1888. C
The Board of Regents assembled in special session in
the room of the President, at 2 o'clock P. M.
Present-President Angell, Regents Draper, Clark,
Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Absent-Regents Blair and Hebard.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the minutes of the
last meeting were approved as printed.
The President stated that several communications had
been placed in his hands, and suggested that they be referred to appropriate committees of the Board. There being no objection, the papers took that course.
President Angell presented the following report of
the action of the Executive Committee:
To the Hon. Board of Regents:
The Executive Committee beg leave to report as follows:
In October they appointed 'John F. Abbott, M. D., Assistant to the
Chair of Surgery and Clinical Surgery in the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, at the salary of $100 a year; and David M. Lichty, B, S., Assistant
in Qualitative Chemistry from Oct. 17, 1888, to June 15, 1889, for the compefisation of seventeen dollars a month.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
CHARLES R. WHITMAN.
On motion of Regent Willett, the report of the Executive Committee was approved by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman,
and Butterfield.
Nays-None.




288


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Willett, the Board went into
Executive session. After some time, the business of the
open session was resumed.
The following communication from        the Dental Faculty was read by Regent Draper:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
GENTLEMIEN.-Dr. James S. Harris, having complied with the requirements of this Department, is recommended by the Faculty of the Dental
College, subject to your approval, for the Degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery.
J. TAFT, Dean.
On motion of Regent Draper, the Degree of Doctor
of Dental Surgery was conferred upon James E. Harris,
in accordance with the recommendation of the Dental
Faculf y.
On motion of Regent Draper, the appointment of
Alviso B. Stevens, Ph. 0., as Instructor in Pharmacy,
(See minutes of the Board, page 213), was made permanent.
Regent Draper presented and read the following report of the Auditing Board.
To the Honorable Board of RIegents:
The Auditing Board beg leave to report as follows:
At the last June meeting of the Board of Regents the Auditing Board
were authorized, acting in conjunction with the Hospital Cominittees of
the two hospitals, to raise the price of board in the hospitals to four dollars
a week, and to appoint a matron and steward to conduct the culinary department of the hospitals.
The Auditing Board accordingly conferred with the Hospital Committees, and raised the price of board at the opening of the University year,
and selected Joseph Clark as steward of the hospitals, at a salary of $1,000
a year. It was not found necessary to make the appointment of a matron.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES B ANGELL,
JAMES H. WADE,
HARRISON SOULE.
On motion of Regent Draper, the action of the Auditing Committee, as set forth in the foregoing report, was
approved by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman,
and Butterfield.
Nays-None.




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


289


On motion of Regent Draper, the following appointments were made in the University Hospital, for one year
from Oct. 1st, 1888: James G. Lynds, M. D., Assistant to
the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, at a salary of $100; E. B. Rowe, M. D., Wa.rdmaster,
at a salary of $300 and board; Miss J. Fleming, M. D.,
nurse, salary $300 and board; Mrs. E. W. Wilson, nitht
nurse, at a salary of $175 and board; Mr. John Aten, night
nurse at a salary of $1.75 and board; also Miss Bertha
Van-loosen, M. D., to be Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy, at a salary of $100.
The above appointments were confirmed by the following votes:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whlitman,
and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark presented and read the following communication:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigtan:
GENTLEMIEN.-Mr. Fred. C. Hicks, who is a candidate for the Degree of
Doctor of Philosophy, has taken charge of the quizzes in rny classes this semester, and had full charge of two of my classes during my absen(,ce iu
Washington. For this service he receives payment, though urt frcmn the
treasury of the University. It would seem to be just that his namLe should
appear in the Calendar, as Assistant. in Political Economy," anud if there is
no objection on the ground of general policy, I respectfully request that ihis
be done.
Respectfully yours,
HENRY C. ADAMS.
Regent Field introduced the followino      resolution,
which was carried by the full vote of the Board.
Resolved, That Mr. F. C. Hicks be appointed as Assistant
in Political Economy, without pay, for the academic year 1888 -89.
Regent Willett offered the following resolution,which
was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That the thanks of the Board be extended to Mr.
George C. Mahon, for the gift of books made by him to the
University library, 355 in number, and particularly described in
the last report of Librarian Davis.




290


SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


On motion of Regent Clark, the President was requested to convey the thanks of the Board to the Walker
Manufacturing Company, of Cleveland, Ohio, for valuable
gifts to the Department of Mechanical Engineering, as
follows: One spur gear, one bevel gear, one worm gear,
and three sets of shaft hangers.
The request of Assistant Professor J. B. Davis, for an
appropriation of $275, for the    purchase of additional
camp equipage for the use of the Engineering Class in
the field, was, on motion of Regent Field, laid on the
table.
Regent Draper moved that Mary E. Thompson, A. B.,
M. D., be appointed Assistant to the Professor ot Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children, and to the Professor of Ophthalmology and Otology, in the Homceopathic Medical College, for one year, at a salary of $200,
vice Harriet M. Allen, M. D., resigned; and that Duncan J. Sinclair, M. D., be appointed Assistant to the Professor of Surgery and Clinical Surgery and to the Professor of Theory and Practice of Medicine in the Homoeopathic Medical College, for one year at a salary of $200,
vice Geo. D. Arndt, M. D., resigned.    A call vote taken
on the above motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman,
and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett presented     and read the following
communication from Mr. Charles M. Hammond:
ANN ARBOR, December 3d, 1888,
To the Board of Regents, University of Michigan:
On the 15th day of Sept., 1887, I forwarded my fees for matriculation in
the Law Department. On the 17th of the same month my name was enrolled, and a seat was assigned to me.
I left Canada on the 30th of Sept., 1887, en route for Ann Arbor, with
the intention of becoming a citizen of the U. S. and a resident of this State.
On the 22d of October, 18S7, I formally " declared my intention " of becoming such, before the Deputy Clerk of the Circuit Court for this County.
From that date till now, I have been in the State of Michigan. The
summer months were spent by me, in the study of law, in the office of attorneys in Detroit.




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


291


On the 1st of October, 1888, I returned to Ann Arbor, to complete my
legal course. On the following day (2nd Oct.) I wished and applied to register as a resident of this State, but was denied the right by the Secretary,
Mr. Wade. But on the 26th of Nov. 18S8, I paid full fees, under protest to
the Treasurer.
These facts being true, I submit to this Hon. Board, that I am a resident of this State and that being a resident am entitled to a rebate of ten
dollars from the sum paid to the Treasurer of the University.
Further, I may add that I have made arrangements to enter the same
law office in Detroit, with the intention of becoming a permanent resident
of Michigan in every sense of the word.
Yours very truly,.CHAS. M. HAMMOND.
The following resolution submitted by Regent Willett was unanimously adopted by the Board:
Resolved, That the action of Secretary Wade in the matter
of Chas. M. Hammond, be approved by this Board.
On motion of Regent Willett, Regents Draper, Clark,
and Butterfield, were appointed a committee to make
such explanations of the memorial to the Legislature as
may be found necessary.
On motion of Regent Butterfield the Board adjourned
to 7 o'clock P. i.
EVENING     SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7 o'clock P. M.       Regent
Blair having arrived, the only member absent was Regent
Hebard.
The Board listened to the memorial of the Medical
Faculties presented by Dr. Vaughan, urging the necessity
of better hospital accommodations and asking the Board
to memorialize the Legislature for an appropriation for
that purpose. The request of the Medical Faculties was
seconded by a committee of the citizens of Ann Arbor
who were present, and, through their chairman, Mr. E. B.
Pond, expressed the opinion that the City of Ann Arbor
would give the sum    of $25,000, provided the Legislature
would appropriate $50,000, for the purchase of a site and
the erection of a building for hospital purposes.




292


SPECIAL MEETING, 188g.


Dr. Taft, Dean of the Dental Faculty, was heard on
the needs of the Dental Department.
Dr. Prescott, Dean of the School of Pharmacy, was invited to address the Board on the needs of that Department, and on the necessity of enlarging the present Laboratory building.
Mr. Otto Eberbach, President of the State Pharmaceutical Association,-addressed the Board, favoring the enlargement of the Laboratory Building as something required to meet the increasing demands of the State upon
the University for better qualified pharmacists.
Dr. Vaughan presented the wants of the Hygienic
Laboratory.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
executive session.
Regent Draper moved that an appropriation of $200
be made for the purchase of one microscope now the
property of Professor H. Gibbes, and that $250 be appropriated for the purpose of enabling the Professor of Pathology to complete some original investigations in Bacteriology, in which he is now engaged.
The vote on Regent Draper's motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the steward of the Hospitals, Mr. Clark, be
instructed to procure for the instruction of the present Senior
class of the Homoeopathic College, five obstetrical cases at an expense not exceeding $200.
The resolution of Regent Draper was adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.




SPECIAL MEETING, 1888.


293


On motion of Regent Draper the sum of $75 was appropriated for the purchase of one galvanic and one cautery battery tor use in the University Hospital by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Field, Whitman, and Butterfield.
Nays-None.
Regent Field submitted the following resolution which
was adopted by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That the Treasurer be instructed to keep a property book which shall contain an inventory of all instruments
and other property now in use at the University and it shall be
his duty to record all additions that may be made thereto from
time to time, by purchase or otherwise; that no property shall
be disposed of or dispensed with unless such disposition be sanctioned by the Auditing Board and duly entered upon the record
book. The heads of the various departments are instructed to
prepare and submit to the Treasurer a full and complete inventory of all property in their respective departments on or before
the close of the current fiscal year.
On motion of Regent Clark, Dr. T. N. Martin was continued in charge of the Chair of Obstetrics and Diseases
of Women and Children in the Medical Department for
the full year with the title of Acting Professor.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING.
1f889~
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, March 27, 1889. 
The Board assembled in the Room of the President
at 2 o'clock p. m.
Present-the President, Regents Clark, Butterfield,
Kiefer, and Whitman.
Absent-Regents Blair, Draper, Willett, and Hebard.
There being no quorum, on motion of Regent Clark,
the Board adjourned to April 17th, at 2 p. m.
JAMES H. WADE.
Secretary.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
APRIL, 1889.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,      1
ANN ARBOR, April 17, 1889.
The Board assembled in the Room of the President
at 2 o'clock p. m.
Present-the President, Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, and Hebard.
Absent-Regents Blair and Butterfield.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the minutes of the
last meeting were approved as printed.
Regent Draper moved that Regent Kiefer be assigned
to the same places on the standing committees of the Board
which were held by the late Regent Field. It was so
ordered.
The President presented the following report of the
Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee beg leave respectfully to report
that on February 22nd, they decided to allow Mrs. Stowell, absent on leave, to employ Mr. D. C. Worcester, at her own expense, to give a part of the instruction in. Botany, usually given
by her.
On February 27th, finding the classes in Drawing larger
than could be properly attended to by Professor Denison, they
appointed Miss Alice Hunt to assist him this semester, two
hours a day, the compensation to be $175 for the semester.
JAMES B. ANGELL.
AUSTIN BLAIR.
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.




ADJOU RNED 3IEETING, 1889.


297


On motion of Regent Clark the action of the Executive Committee was approved by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-N-one.
The following resolution was submitted by Regent
Hebard, and was adopted unanimously.
Resolved, that the thanks of this board be returned to Philo
Parsons, Esq., the donor of the Parsons Library, for the portrait
of himself, which he has presented to the University at the request of the President.
On motion of Regent Willett the Board went into
Executive session.
The Board listened to Professors Rogers and Thompson in relation to changing the course of instruction in the
Law Department. On motion of Regent Willett the matter was laid on the table until the next meeting of the
Board.
The President, on behalf of Mrs. Elisha Jones, submitted to the Board a document relating to the endowment of a Classical Fellowship in the University, which
was, on motion of Regent Draper, referred to the Committee on Finance, and the Committee on the Literary Department jointly.
On motion of Regent Whitman the salary of the late
Elmer Sanford, Instructor in Physiology, was continued
to April 1st, 1889, by the unanimous vote of the Board.
Regent Draper moved that the salary of the late
Professor Morris be continued to April 1st, 1889. The
lotion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitmnan,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that the title of Assistant
Engineer Leo D. Miner, U. S. N., be " Assistant Professor




298


ADJOURINED MEETING, 1889.


of Mechanical and Marine Engineering."  The motion was
carried.
Regent Whitman moved that a committee of five, consisting of the President, Professors Pettee and Demmon,
and two members of the Board, to be named by the President, be appointed, to consider and report at the next
meeting of the Board the advisability of issuing a new
edition of the University Book. The motion was carried
and the President named Regents Draper and Whitman
to act on said committee.
Regent Willett moved that John Dewey, Ph. D., be
appointed Professor of Philosophy, at a salary of $2200,
services to begin October 1st next. Tie motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Auditing Board
were authorized to secure lower rates of insurance.
On motion of Regent Draper, Regent Whitman was
appointed to act with the Secretary in distributing insurance on buildings and contents.
On motion of Regent Willett, the Auditing Board
were authorized to carry a line of $200,000 insurance on
University property if they shall deem it advisable, by
the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman, Chairman of the Committee on
Buildings and Grounds made the following report:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your Committee on Buildings and Grounds beg leave to
submit the following report of M. E. Cooley, Superintendent of
the Construction of the Anatomical Laboratory, and the New
Boiler House. The work has been done in a workmanlike manner, and to the satisfaction of your Committee. The settle



ADJOURNED MEETING, 188 9.                      299
ment of these accounts with the contractors was made by the
previous Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
CHAS, R. WHITMAN,
Chairman of Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIIGAN,         1
ANN AImBOR, DEC. 10, 1888. 
HoN. CHAS. R. WHITMAN,
Chairman of Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
SIR:-I have the honor to submit herewith a report of the expenditures incurred in the construction of the Anatomical Laboratory Building
by Wm. Biggs, contractor.
As reported by your Committee to the Board of Regents Oct. 13, 1887,
the contract was awarded to Wm. Biggs, le being the lowest bidder. The
work was begun without delay and pushed to completion in a manner reflecting much credit on Mr. Biggs as a contractor and builder.
Statement.
Amount of original contract -   -5,987.55
"   " subsequent "       -----------      4616.86
""    extras allowed -----------------    97.5
$ 560.40
Allowance for water furnished and for unexecuted
work ------------ 12,00                                 548.40
Total cost of Building  _ --- —   _ —        $6,535.95
A settlement -was effected with Mr. Biggs Dec. 31, 1887, in which the
sum of twenty-five dollars ($25 00) was retained, with his consent, to finish
pointing cut stone work and grading about building the following spring.
A final settlement was effected Aug. 3, 1888.
Yours respectfully,
M. E. COOLEY, Supt.
HON. CHAS. R. WHITIAN,
Chairman of Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
SIR: —I have the honor to submit also a report of the expenditures incurredin the construction of the New Boiler House Building by Daniel J.
Ross, contractor.
The contract was awarded Mr. Ross July 21, 1887, he being the lowest
bidder.
The building has been completed not without some delay in the execution of certain parts. A portion of the outside pointing and painting
which was done late in the fall was thrown off by the frosts; this has, however, been made good during the past summer.
Statement.
Amount of original contract _                     _ --- —-- --- 7,425.44
"    t" extras allowed on settlement -- _ ---- $301.00
Allowance for water furnished, and for unexecuted
work --------------                   -   42.50         258.50
Total cost of Building   ----------         7,683.94
A settlement was effected with Mr. Ross Dec. 31,1887, in which the sum




300


ADJO URNED 1i'EEITING, 1889.


of one hundred and eighty-three dollars and fifty-five cents ($183.55) was
retained, with his consent, to finish certain work the following spring.
This work has been executed, but the final settlement has not yet been
made.                                M. E. COOLEY, Supt.
On motion of Regent Draper the Board adjourned to
7.30 p. m.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 7.30 p. in.
On motion of Regent Draper the resignation of Professor Chas. H. Stowell was accepted to take effect Oct.
1st, 1889.
The following communication was received from      the
Board of Health.
ANN ARBOR, MtICHi., March 4, 1889.
DR. J. B. ANGELL, President of the University of Mich., Ann Arbor.
DEAR SIR: —At a meeting of the Board of Health Feb. 28,
1889, the following resolution was adopted, and the Secretary was
instructed to send a copy of the resolution to the University
authorities.
"Resolved, That all students hereafter admitted to the
University shall present to the University authorities satisfactory
evidence of vaccination within the five (5) years previous to
such admission."
And the Board of Health also recommend to the Regents
to publish such requirenment in the Annual Calendar of the
University.
Yours truly etc.,
H. B. DODSLEY,
See. Board of Health of the City of Ann Arbor.
On   motion of Regent Draper the coimmunication
from the Board of Health was laid on the table.
Regent Draper presented the following communication from the Medical Faculty.
UNIVERSITY OF MaICHIGAN, 
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGEPR~Y,
ANN ARBOR, February 7th, 1889.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN: —At a meeting of the Faculty of the Depart



ADJOURNED M-EETING, 1889.


301


ment of Medicine and Surgery, held Tuesday p. m., Feb. 5th,
1889, the following resolution was passed:
Moved that the Faculty respectfully request the Board of
Regents to make an appropriation to provide obstetrical cases
for the instruction of medical students, the amount to be in proportion to the number of students in attendance and provided
for in the same manner, as is the amount allowed the other department for that purpose.  Very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL,
Sec. Dept. of Med. and Surgery.
Regent Draper moved that the sum of $500 be appropriated for the purpose of securing and maintaining ob
stetrical cases in the University Hospital for the instruction
of the present graduating class, and that the Steward of
the Hospitals be required to procure these cases, and to
provide and care for them while in the Hospital.
The motion of Regent Draper was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
The following communication from the Medical Faculty was read by Regent Draper.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
DEPARTMENT OF M[EDICINE AND SURGERY,
ANN ARBOR, March 27th, 1889.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GENTLEMEN:-I am, instructed by action of the Faculty of
the Department of Medicine and Surgery, to inform you that
Mr. Horace Wilcox has completed the required work in this department and is hereby recommended to the Board for the degree of M.D.              Very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL,
Secretary Dept. of Med. and Surg.
On motion of Regent Draper, the President was authorized to confer the degree of Doctor of Medicine on
Horace Wilcox, according to the recommendation of the
Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.




302


A0DJOURNED IMEETING, 1889.


Regent Clark presented the following comnmunication
from Professor J. W. Langley:
PITTSBURGH, PA., April 15th, 1889.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
GENTLEMEN:-When I asked you for a leave of absence a
year ago, I expected to return to duty at the expiration of the
leave; but somewhat recently I have had such offers to take up
a line of professional work in this city that I have decided to do
so, and therefore I now tender you my resignation to take effect
June 30th, next.
While I make this request of you, I cannot do so without
also expressing my great personal regret at severing the ties
which have connected me with the University of Michigan for
nearly fifteen years and at leaving a field of work which has
been so long a source to me of both honor and pleasure.
Respectfully Yours,
JOHN W. LANGLEY.
Prof. Met, and Gen. Chem.
On motion of Regent Clark the resignation of Professor Langley was accepted.
On motion of Regent Clark the resignation of Mrs.
Louisa Reed Stowell was accepted to take effect Oct. 1st,
1889.
On motion of Regent Clark, Mr. Albert C. Eycleshymer was appointed to do work in Microscopical Botany
during the 2nd semester, his salary to be paid by Mrs.
Stowell.
Regent Whitman moved that a sum not exeeding $50
be appropriated for the purpose of enabling the Demonstrator of Anatomy to visit some of the counties in the
State, and urge the proper authorities to comply with the
State law in regard to the sending of anatomical material
to the University. The motion was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the President was re



ADJO URNED.MEETING, 1889.


303


quested to convey the thanrs of this Board for valuable
donations made to the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the University.
The Gordon Steam Pump Co., Hamilton, Ohio.
For one duplex piston pump, 6 in. steam cylinders, 4 in.
water cylinders, and 6 in. stroke; also, for several large framed
photographs of pumping engines.
James Clements & Son, Bay City, Mich.
For one 1 pint Swift Lubricator.
Edward Dewey & Co., Waters' Governor Works, Boston, Mass.
For one 2 in. Governor, Class B. For high speed engine.
Russell Engine Co, Massillon, Ohio.
For complete set of working drawings of double valve
engine.
The joint committee to whom was referred the document relating to the endowment of a Classical Fellowship
in the University, submitted the following preamble and
resolutions which were unanimously adopted:
Whereas, Mrs. Catharine E. Jones proposes to endow a
Classical Fellowship in the University of Michigan, as a memorial to her husband, Professor Elisha Jones, on the terms and
conditions named in the following statement:
I, Catharine E. Jones, of the City of Ann Arbor, in the
County of Washtenaw, and State of Michigan, do hereby promise and covenant to and with the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, that I will establish in connection with said
University a Fellowship in memory of my husband, Elisha
Jones; said fellowship to be designated and known as the Elisha
Jones Classical Fellowship; it being my earnest purpose to encourage in my husband's name and memory as far as lies in my
power, patient, honest, accurate study of the Languages, Literatures, and Archaeology of Ancient Greece and Rome; and that
for the purpose of establishing and sustaining said Fellowship, I
do hereby pledge myself and my Estate to the amount of ten
thousand dollars as the principal sum of the Endowment, and
until the whole of said sum shall have been paid to the Board of
Regents, I further pledge myself and myEstate for the annual
payment of the sum of five hundred dollars, or such a sum as
with the income derived from the sum or sums that I may from
tinle to time pay to the Board of Regents, shall make the a, nual




304


ADJO URVNED MEETING, 1889.


income of five hundred dollars. And I will pay the said annual
sum in two equal semi annual installments at the beginning of
each semester.
When the Regents of the University shall have received
the whole of the Endowment Fund of ten thousand dollars, the
same shall be a perpetual and inviolable fund and be invested
and from time to time reinvested by said Regents in good interest bearing securities with interest payable annually or oftener;
said interest, and that only, to be devoted to and used by them
in support of said Fellowship as follows: ---There shall be a Board
of Examiners for the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship consisting of the President of the University, the Senior Professor of
Greek, and the Senior Professor of Latin, and two other full Professors of the Academic Faculty, chosen by the above named appointees; the President of the University to be Chairman of the
Board and in his absence the Senior Professor of Greek, and in
the absence of both, the Senior Professor of Latin; a majority of
the members of said Board constituting a quorum to transact
business, and a majority of the votes of those present at any
meeting being necessary to the decision of any question. The
said Board of Examiners shall appoint candidates to the Elisha
Jones Classical Fellowship according to the following conditions
1. The candidate must have resided at the University of
Michigan as a student in the Academic Department at least
three entire semesters prior to the appointment; must have
made distinguished proficiency in the Greek and Latin languages, such proficiency to be ascertained by tests agreed upon
by the Examining Board; must be a Bachelor of Arts of not
more than two years' standing, and must possess an unexceptionable moral character.
2. The holder of said Fellowship must make the Greek and
Latin languages and literatures the special subjects of study during his, or her, incumbency, adding thereto such other branches
of study as may be chosen by the incumbent and approved by
the Examining Board.
3. The period of incumbency shall be limited to two academic years, but the incumbent may be removed by the Examing Board at-any time during this period, if said Board shall find
in his or her conduct or scholarship good and sufficient ground
for such removal; and therefore the incumbent shall at all timles
be liable to be called upon by the Board for examination or inquiry as to habits of life and study.




ADJO URNED MEETIVNG, 1889.


305


4. The two years of incumbency shall be spent at the University of Michigan unless at any time the Examining Board
shall see fit to allow the second year to be spent by the holder of
the Fellowship at Athens, or at Rome, or at some other place
deemed by the Board equally favorable to classical study, in the
systematic study of Classical Philology and Literature. If at
any period hereafter the degree of Master of Arts or any other
degree of the same significance shall take the place of Bachelor
of Arts in the University of Michigan, then in the above condition numbered 1 the limitation expressed by the words, " A
Bachelor of Arts of not more than two year's standing," shall be
changed so as to read, " A Master of Arts (or its equivalent) of
not more than two years standing." Of the candidates fulfilling
the requirements specified in article numbered 1 of the foregoing conditions the one best qualified in the judgment of the Examining Board to hold the Fellowship shall receive from the
chairman of the Examining Board a certificate of appointment
to the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship, which shall entitle the
holder thereof to be paid one-half the annual stipend of said Fellowship, to-wit, two hundred and fifty dollars, on presentation
of the said certificate to the treasurer of the Board of Regents;
and thereafter on the first day of each semester the incumben t
shall be entitled to receive another installment of the same
amount as the first on presentation of a certificate of satisfactory
standing from the chairman of the Examining Board.
Furthermore, if the income of the Elisha Jones Classical
Fellowship shall at any time be applied otherwise than as specified in the foregoing conditions numbered 1, 2, 3, and 4, then the
Fund shall revert to the said Catharine E. Jones, or, in case of
her death, to her heirs or legatees. But this forfeiture shall not
be incurred in consequence of any necessary diminution of the
semi-annual stipend under the circumstances hereinafter m-entioned or any necessary suspension of the Fellowship either on
account of the removal of the incumbent, or of the want of a
candidate properly qualified to hold it.
Furthermore, when the Elisha Jones Classical Fellowship
shall be fully established by the payment of the entire principal
sum of ten thousand dollars, the provision for an annual payment on the part of the donor, and other than the income from
the interest of the Endowment, shall cease and become forever
inoperative and void. In the event of my decease before the payment of said principal sum of ten thousand dollars, I do hereby




306


ADJOURNAED 3IEETING, 1889.


promise and agree that said sum or such part of said sum as at
the time of my decease may still remain unpaid shall be paid to
said Regents out of my Estate for the purpose and under the
terms and conditions above provided; and my Executor or Administrator is hereby directed to pay it accordingly.
Furthermore, when the annual income of said Endowment
shall exceed five hundred dollars, whatever excess there may be
shall remain in the hands of the Regents and be added to the
permanent Endowment Fund; and when the principal sum
shall furnish the income for a second Fellowship of the same
amount per annum as the first, a second Fellowship shall be established bearing the same name, organized on the same basis
and with the same conditions and control as the first Fellowship
already provided. In the event of the income from the Endowment Fund of ten thousand dollars exceeding the amount necessary to support the two Fellowships above mentioned, the surplus shall at the discretion of the Board of Regents either be
added to the principal sum and constitute a part of it or shall
be used to increase the semi-annual stipends of the two Fellowships; and if in the judgment of the Board of Regents the principal shall at any time have so increased as to justify, and provide for, the establishment of other Fellowships they shall be established, bearing the same name, organized on the same basis
and with the same conditions and control as the two Fellowships above mentioned. If at any time the annual income of the
Endowment Fund shall fall short of the amount necessary for
the semi-annual stipends above mentioned, then and only during the period of such deficiency shall such stipends be diminished in amount in exact proportion to the amount of such deficiency. This instrument is to become valid and effectual whenever the said Board of Regents of the University of Michigan
shall by vote at a meeting of their Board accept and ratify the
same and the terms thereof and not until then.
In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and seal in
the City of Ann Arbor aforesaid on the thirteenth day of April
in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eightynine.
CATHARINE E. JONES. [L. S.]
Witnesses:
HENRY S. FRIEZE.
CARRIE ADELL JONES.
FRANCES MAY JONES.




ADJOURNED MEETING, 1889.


307


Therefore, Resolved, That with gratitude for the donor's
generosity we accept the trust which she asks us to take, and
ratify the instrument above copied and the terms thereof.
Resolved, That the account of the. University with the
Elisha Jones Fellowship Fund shall be kept on the Treasurer's
books entirely distinct from the accounts with all other funds,
and that no part of the principal or the income of that fund
shall ever be used for any purpose except for the establishment
and maintenance of the Fellowship or Fellowships designated
in the statement above copied.
Resolved, That we avail ourselves of this opportunity to
express our willingness to receive and administer as trustees any
funds which may be given us in trust for the endowment of
scholarships, fellowships, or professorships, or for the aid by any
means of the usefulness of the University.
The Committee onBuildings and Grounds through their
Chairman, Regent Whitman, made the following report:
Hon. Board of Regents.
GENTLEMEN:-Your Committee on Buildings and Grounds
beg leave to report that the building known as the Physical and
Hygienic Laboratories (the contract for which was let by a former
Committee of this Board ) has been completed to the entire satisfaction of your Committee, and full and final settlement has
been made with the contractor. The building has been turned
over to the University, and accepted by your Committee. We
invite your attention to the detailed report of H. S. Carhart,
Superintendent, as shown below.
CHARLES R. WHITMAN,
Chm. Corn. on Buildings and Grounds.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, )
PHYSICAL LABORATORY, 
ANN ARBOR, Dec. 12, 1888. 
To the Building Committee of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEMEN:-I have the honor to submit the following
report as Superintendent for the construction of the Physical
and Hygienic Laboratories. A detailed statement of expenditures is enclosed, showing an unexpended balance out of the
$30,000 appropriated of $176.93. The building has been constructed in accordance with plans and specifications except in so
far as changes have been fully authorized and additions regularly made thereto. The work has been completed by the contractor in a substantial and workmanlike manner, and the




308           ADJO URNED MIEETING, 1889.
building has been already found excellently adapted to its proposed uses. The necessary equipment and fittings have not yet
been completely furnished, but quite as much has been obtained
within the appropriation as was expected.
I have the honor to remain,
Very respectfully yours,
H. S. CARHART.
BUILDING FOR SCIENTIFIC LABORATORIES,
Contract price of building --- — -------------------— 26,736 89
Extra foundation wall -- -----     -----   ---    37 35
1 stone corbel -------------------------------------  3 50
Piers and Foundations -- -—.- --- -              7 --- —   O
1 extra door ------------.. --- —---              12 00
Tar and tarred paper ----—.- —..-..-..     -    15 00
3 days extra labor    -----  --        ----------  4 50
Plastering blackboards -.._ _ ---  ----—.          5 50
125 lbs. copper nails, 23c._ ---. --- —. ----  ---   32 50
22 sq. ft. state slabs, extra  ------------       11 00
Architect's fees --, --- —-   ----------   --   935 79
Superintendent's salary — -------  --     ------  480 00
Plans for steam heating -- ------ ---   -         66 00
Seats for lecture room ------------------        156 00
Cases for physical apparatus  --- -- ------- --    2: 00
Lecture table _ ----_ --- —--— 30 5 50 
Desks for chemical work -------  __ --- —      -  178 00
Extra painting and varnishing -------- --  ----   44 70
Advertising  ----------  --------  --------       42 83
Copper anchors ----  ----  ----------             30 52
Freight and express  ------------    ---          10 65
Buscoe & Co., copper ------------       ------     1 50
Tolbert -- ---     -------- ------  - ---          1 28
Inland Publishing Co. -- -------   ---------       7 81
Flue linings       ---------    ---   ------      10 50
Electrical Supply Co., (wire) -_ --- — ----------   1 71
Labor in placing wires — -   -   ---—. --- —---    4 44
Lead weights (windows) ------- --   -----         46 69
Hauling gravel --. ---------                  1 t 50
Pulleys and butls (T. B. Rayl)  ------- ------     8 24
Asphaltum floors __ —_ --  _ --- _  ---- --— _-   829 62
Wire cables ---    ----------     ------------    3 61
Painting screens and blackboards  _- _ — -- --    16 06
American Express     _______ --- —--------    _     2 15
Stone in basement corridor — __ --- —-_-_ —__      21 84
Zinc conductors --- —--                ------------  7 20
Canvas for screens -  _ ----... ----     --   -    7 38
Steam and water pipes ----—, —  -------------- _ __.. 336 77
Plumbing in second story- _ --- —-----            117 47
Plumbing in first story and basement —. ---- -        80 51
Four laboratory tables, at $2.75  __ ----___ ___ — _.  11 00
Extra steam coils for H-ygienic Laboratory --— _  26 00
Extra for waste for urinal stalls  ---------       5 00
Extra galvanized iron ventilating flues --.. ----_..... ~ _  27 00 $ 30,901 51




ADJOURNED MIEETTNG, 1889.


309


REBATES.
720 Ibs. iron window weigh-ts. —. --- —--------  8 64
Basement floor  ------------   ----------   856 11
Difference on hardware       -----------------  74 67
42 ft. flue lining --- —---------------       5 00
Asphaltum floor for contractor -- ----------  34 02
Superintendent's salary for 2 months ---- ----  100 00  1,078 44
29,823 07
Balance to credit of appropriation ----------  176 93
$ 30,000 00
The above balance has now been expended for appliances in the Hygienic Laboratory.
The Committee on Buildings and Grounds submit the report of Prof. Carhart, Superintendent of construction of the
Physical and Hygienic Laboratories. The work has been well
and satisfactorily done and the appropriation has not been exceeded.                  CHARLES R. WHITMAN,
Chn. Corn. on Buildings and Grounds.
The special Committee on Salaries had under consideration the request of Professor M. E. Cooley for a readjustment of his salary under the resolution of the
Board adopted at a special meeting held Feb. 17th, 1888.
(See Regents' Proceedings, page 202.) The Committee
reported that they saw no reason to change their former
ruling in this case and their report was adopted.
Dr. D. A.   cLachlan being desirous of going to
Europe for special study, was granted leave of absence
from the 15th of May to the 1st of October.
A commnunication was received from Professor L. D.
Miner which was on motion of Regent Willett laid on the
table until the next meeting of the Board.
Reegent Whitman moved that the sum       of $550 be
appropriated for the purchase of tents and camp equipage,
for the use of the class in Civil Engineering, and to defray
the expenses of the Professor in charge, while engaged in
work in the field. The motion was carried by the following vote:




310


ADJO URNED MEETING, 1889.


Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Auditing Board
were authorized to expend a sum not exceeding $100 in
putting curtains in the Physical and Hygienic Laboratories by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett moved that a sum not exceeding $50
be appropriated for this year only, to defray the expenses
of the Professor in charge of the class in Mechanical
Engineering, on their annual tour of inspection to Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland.
The motion of Regent Willett was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman,
and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Board adjourned.
JAMES H. WADE, Secretary.




JUNE MEETING.
1889.
1S89,>


UNIVERSITY OF MrCHIGAN,
ANYN ARBOR, June 25, 1889.
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 10 o'clock A. M.
Present-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Absent-None.
On motion of Re-ent Blair, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
A number of commnunications which had reached the
President, were, at his suggestion, referred to appropriate
commlittees of the Board.
Regent Blair, chairman of tlhe Law Committee, presented the following comm1unication:
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of Michigan 
Gentlleen: The following named persons have completed
the course of study prescribed for students of Law in this University, and passed examinations on the same to the satisfaction
of the Faculty of Law:


Thomas Jay Adams,
William Grant Adams,
Armand Albrecht,
James Douglas Armstrong,
James Jaquess Ashworth,
Robert M. Barnes,
Lloyd Warfield Bassett,
Carl Louis Baumann,
Vincent Earle Bayless,
Raymond Walter Beach, B. S. (C.E.),


Abraham Benedict,
Frank Bennett,
William Blincoe, A. B., B. S.,
Kansas Normal College.
Louis Claire Boyle,
Lincoln Ellison Bradt,
Arthur Wolfe Brady, A. B.,
Yale University.
Fordyce Wiswell Briggs,
Frederick Anson Brown,
Edward Anderson Burton,
Joseph Beatty Burtt, A. B.,




312


JUNE MEETING, 1889.


Robert Milligan Carothers,        ]
Henry Manson Carr,
Silver Chaney, B. S., 
Washington and Jefferson College.
Charles Cameron Chappelear,
Luke Henry Cheney, A. B.,
Nebraska State University.
James Alexander Chiles, A. B.,
Lincoln University.
James H. Clancy,
Peter Daniel Connolly,
James Lyons Cooper,
John Harrod Couch,
John Henry Coyne,
Sanders Brownlow Cox. A, B.,
Kentucky University.
William Elijah Cox, LL. B,
Cumberland University.
Robert Emmett Cresswell,
Francis Marion Crum,
William Harvey Dailey,
August Bengtson Darelius,
Elbert Russel Dean,
John.Charles Dooling,
Melvin Loring Douglass,
James Nicholas Edmonson,
Earle Edmundson,
Frederick Stewart Fish,
Charles Clifton Forry,
Frederick Debow Fulkerson,
Joseph Lawrence Glover,
George Brenton Greening,
William Wickware Griffin,
Milton Samuel Gunn,
Justice Uhler Haley,
Charles Martin Hammond,
John Dallas Harger,
Charles Harshman,
James Adelbert Harris,
Charles Henry Hart,
Harry C. Hayman,
Henry Ward B. Hicks,
Seward Higby,
Volney Omeara Hildreth, A. B.,
lentucky University.
John McClellan Hoel,
Otho Ruby Hopson,


Louis Edgar Howlett,
George Washington Huston,
Samuel Robb Ireland,
William Hutchinson Jamison,
Winfield Scott Johnson,
William Patrick Kearns,
George Lincoln Keeler,
Ernest Robert Keith,
William Carroll Henry Keough,
John Albion Kimball,
John Claus Kleist, M. S.,
Lawrence University.
James Fremont Knight,
Moses Barnett Lairy,
James Porter Leasure,
Grant Everett Lilly,
James Allen Martin,
Loyal Johnston Martin,
John Wilbur Mathews,
Charles Whitfield McAnn, A. B.,
Mount Allison College.
James Francis McElroy, B. S.,
University of Washington.
Josiah Wheeler McIntyre,
Albert Edward McManus,
Emil Adolphus Meyer,
James Miles,
Charles William Miller,
Fred Hiram Mills,
Charles Manley Moffet,
Deane Stockton Monahan,
James Guthrie Montgomery,
James Archibald Muir,
James Buchanan Murphy, B. S.,
University of the Pacific.
Taijiro Nakagawa,
James Carson Needham, Ph. B.,
University of the Pacific.
Will Edwin Newlin,
Louis Delevan Niles. B. S., M, D.,
Michigan Agricultural College.
Stephen Robert Nisbet,
John McFarland Ormond, Ph. B.,
University of Wooster.
Gunrock Otsubo,
John Hamilton Patten, B. S.,
Iowa Agricultural College.
Edmond Kimball Pendergast,
Fred Pennington,




JUNE MEETING, 1889.


313


Harvey Arthur Penny,
Earl Henry Prince, B. S.,
Norwich University.
James Maxwell Proudfit,
Frank Adgate Quail, A. B.,
Washburn College.
John Francis Quinlin,
Jesse Albert Rapley,
Calvin Edgar Reed,
Robie Lewis Reid,
Crawford Scott Reilley,
Oliver Samuel Riggs,
William Vance Rinehart, Jr.,
Will E. Ryan,
Fred Alfred Sabin,
Charles Alexander Salyer,
Archibald S. Sands,
Albert Edward Seaman,
Mark Roger Sherman, A. B.,
Robert Lee Simpson, A. B.,
Westminster College.
George PrestOn Smith,
Will Jackson Stanton,
LaVergne Belden Stevens,
Morton Edwin Stevens,
George Stoneman, Jr.,


Douglas Jerrold Sullivan,
Reitaro Takano,
Samuel Lennon Thompson, A. B.,
Buchtel College.
Richard Marvin Turner,
Nathan Edwin Van Tuyl,
Charles William Vermilion,
Charles Winfield Waterman, A. B.,
University of Vermont.
Morris Benjamin Wells,
Thomas Henry Wheeler,
Albert Stanton White,
Charles William White, B. S.,
La Grange College.
Orlando Blodgett Willcox,
Samuel Law Wilson, A. B.,
Lenox College.
Melvin Leonard Wines,
Alva Firman Wingert,
Edward Emmert Wingert, A. B.,
Northern Illinois College.
Frederick William Wolluer,
Richard Shedrach Woodliff;
Samuel Marshall Wright,
William Trott Wynkoop,
Henry Martin Young,
Oscar Robert Zipf.


The Law Faculty therefore recommend that your honorable
body confer upon the aforesaid persons the degree of Bachelor of
Laws. All of which is respectfully submitted.
HENRY WADE ROGERS' Dean.
ANN ARBOR, June 25th, 1889.
On motion of Regent Blair, the President was authorized to confer the degree of Bachelor of L iws upon the
persons named in the foregoing communication, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law.
Regent Clark, Chairman of the Literary Committee,
presented the following communication:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: By direction of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, I have the honor to




314


JUNE MEETING, 1889.


report that the following named persons are recommended to
you for the degrees indicated:
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.


James Ware Adams,
Henry Towne Bannon,
Blanche Kingsbury Barney
Horace Van Birdsell,
Charles Edward Everett.
Belva Mary Herron,
Kate Lincoln Johnson,


Nellie Minerva Johnson,
Bertha Joslyn,
Carrie Marion Palmer,
Lewis Wallace Parker,
Harmon Chamberlin St. Clair,
May Turner,
Florence Ella Whitcomb,.
Lewis Smith Young.


15


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN BIOLOGY.)
Frank Alsworth Waples.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN MINING ENGINEERING.)


1


Homer Mason Sackett,
Frank Clemes Smith,


Otho Sibley Stull,
Philip Robert Whitman.


4


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.)


William Allan Livingstone,
Frederick Homan Loveridge,
Eugene Loring McAllaster,


William Vaughan Moses,
Ernest Blackman Perry,
Gordon Edward Stannard.   6


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN CIVIL ENGINEERING.)
Flavius Morse Crocker,          Richard Khuen, Jr.,
Herbert Samuel Crocker,         William Philander Rounds,
Julius Weisbach Hegeler,        Louis Henry Shoemaker,
William J. Hussey,              Miner Cole Taft,
Gardiner Stewart Williams.


BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
(IN. GENERAL SCIENCE.)


Louis Begemann,
Andrew McCormack Brown,
Albert Morton Shaw,


Will. Hittell Sherzer,
Alva Beech Thompson,
Horace Vaughn Winchell,
fames Burris Wood.


7




JUNTE MEE TING, 1889.


315


BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.


Fannie Barker,
Willis John Beckley,
Clarissa Sophia Bigelow,
Hollie Broughton Bracewell,
Allen Lysander Colton,
William Herman Detwyler,
William Worth Eagan,
Charles Kirke Eddy,
Effie Matilda Gaylord,
Charles Edwin Goddard,
Charles Alexander Green.
William Welton Harris,
Frank Winchester Hawks,
Charles Sumner Hyde,
B ACH
Fred Hull Abbott,
Isabella Montgomery Andrews,
Virginia Beauchamp,
Eugene Nimmons Best,
Thaddeus Lincoln Bolton,
Willis Elrner Bond,
Benjamin Parsons Bourland,
John Edward Boyer,
Elmer Ellsworth Brown,
Ellen Elizabeth Garrigues,
John Greenshields,
Julian Dana Harmon,
Walter Simpson Holden,
Phebe Anne Isadore Howell,
Arthur Mekeel Hussey,
Alfred Eugene Jennings,
Hattie Crosby Jennings,
Arlisl
MAST
Elisha Ai
MIAST
Henry Benner, B. S.,
MAr
Ernest Alanson Balch, A. B.,
Mary Louise Jones, A. M.,


George Preston Hyde,
Lewis Ralph Jones,
Frances Charlotte Lennox,
Lewis Murbach,
Minnie Howe Newby,
Charles Everett Rockwood,
Lillie Emma Rosewarne,
Arthur Eli Rowley,
Oscar Frederick Schmid,
Albert Laverne Shepard,
Warren Hadley Smith,
Eliza Read Sunderland,
Charles Philender Taylor,
Zada J. Wilson.
ELOR OF ARTS.


28


Anna Susan Jones,
Fred Sibley Loomis,
Clyde Vallandigham Nafe,
Robert Bruce Preble,
Frederick Leroy Prentiss,
Gertrude Belle Rose,
George Frederick Rush,
Thomas Chalkley Severance, Jr.,
Lizzie Ide Shiell,
Josephine Eliza Sondericker,
Fred Bernard Spaulding,
Clement Richelieu Stickney,
Albert Brodie Stone,
James Ely Talley.
Katherine Mary West,
Sara Whedon,
Dean Conant Worcester,


e Margaret Young.
ER OF LETTERS.
Ionroe Hartman, B. L.


105


'ER OF SCIENCE.
Charles Wright Dodge, B. S. (Biol.).
STER OF ARTS.
Ida Maria Street, A. B.,
William Michael Zumbro, A. B. 4


DOCTOR OF SCIENCE.
Erwin F. Smith, B. S. (Biol.).    1
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Yeijiro Ono, Ph. B.,        Fred Newton Scott, A. M.  2 115
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registraro




316


JUNE 3MEETING, 1889.


On motion of Regent Clark, the Board authorized the
degrees indicated in the foregoing colmmunication to be
conferred upon the persons therein named, according to
the recommennIdtion of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Draper presented the following communication from the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
SCHOOL OF PHARMIACY,
ANN ARBOR, June 25th, 1889.)
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: By direction of the Faculty of the School of
Pharmacy, I respectfully report that the following named persons have completed all the requirements for the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist. They are now recommended to you for
this degree 
Charles Coy Abbey,             Christian Gottleb Jenter,
Harry Andrews Allshouse,      Burt Lemuel Johnson,
James Edward Allworth,        Franklin Ross Keith,
Benjamin Thomas Barry,         William Carl Kirchgessner,
Leo Prosper Block,            Leonard George Kramler,
Edwin Timothy Boden,           William Henry Krug.
Thomas Worthington Bowen,      William Squire Lockwood,
Fred J. Chamberlin,            Fred William Mehlhop,
Starr King Church,            Firdinand Edmund Parkinson,
Charles Felix Crowley,         Mark Rockwell,
William LeRoy Dunn,            Charles William Rowland,
Julia Esther Emanuel,          George Michigan Schettler.
Merrill Stanton Flint,         Oscar John Smith,
Henry Franz,                   Louis Joseph Speuker,
John Henry Frost,              John Thompson,
Truman Griffen,               Harry Simmons VanEtta,
Rolla Morgan Heath,           Albert Frederick Vogel,
Bernhard Conrad Hesse,        Matthew Weightman, Jr.,
George Jacob Hirth, Jr.,      William Clapp Wheelock,
Russell Lowell Janney,         Joseph.Baldwin Wood,
August Charles Zeig.               41
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT,
Dean of the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Draper, the President was authorized to confer the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist
upon the persons named in the above communication in
accordance with the recommendation therein contained.




JUNE MEETING, 1889.


317


Regent Draper presented the following communication:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: I am instructed by the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, to inform you that the following
named candidates have fulfilled the requirements for the degree
of Doctor of Medicine, and are hereby recommended:


Christopher Adamson,
Adrian Richard Alfred,
Leighton Pine Alien,
Bion Arnold,
Eunice Jemima Avery,
Thomas James Avery,
Thomas Stewart Blair,
John Alexander Blake,
Carroll Osborne Boyce,
George Johnson Boyd,
George Alfred Bradburn,
James Ritchison Breakey,
Mary Brown,
Mathilde Buck,
Henry Clay Burcham,
Charles Newell Burton,
Francis Henry Callow, B. S.,
Hillsdale College.
Harry Lee Canright,
Charles Ogden Cartwright,
Elizabeth Janette Child,
James Edward Childs,
Cassius Mentor Coldren,
William S. Connery,
David Goldthwait Coolidge,
George Lan ning Cramer,
Charles Stanley Crane,
John Sedgwick Dean,
Will Harry Dodge,
Presca Isaac Edwards,
William Charles Elliott,
Fred W. Essig,
Jessie White Findlay,
Charles Henry Fowler, A. B.,
Lincoln University.
Christian Seehuusen Fries,
James Skiffington Grant,


Fanny Sarah Crossett Hall,
Franklin Pierce HIannon,
Ernestine Julia Hicks,
Elden William Hills,
Andrew John Hoenes,
Katherine Quane Holden,
Peter William Holleman, A. B.,
Hope College.
Alex F. Irwin,
John Linn Irwin, Ph. C.,
George Orlo Jefferson,
Cornelius Adrian Johnson,
Walter James Johnson,
Lewis Hasbrouck Kemble,
Frances Elizabeth Kyle,
Andrew Stewart Lobingier, A. B.,
Willis Alien McConkie,
Archibald McEacheran,
Harry McKennan,
George Stewart McPherson,
Andrew Milton Miller,
Perry Harris Munger,
Walter Starnes Nash,
Mary Anna Norton,
Clara Augusta Oswald,
Ernest Henry Parker,
John Allen Parks,
Edward Peirce,
Samuel Lee Probert,
Frank Rainie, B. S.,
North Western Ohio University.
Sylvanus W. Robillard,
George Austin Rowe,
George John Schneider,
Scott Searles,
Alobert William Sherman,
Boghos Tevan Simonian, A. B.,
Armenia College.
William Milton Slaght, A. B.,
Olivet College.


John N. Green,




JUNE M3EETING, 1889.


George Slocum,              Wadsworth Warren, A. B.,
Olivet College.
Fred Heman Spaulding,       Emanuel Slerman Wenger,
Minnie Ellen Stacks,        William Bennajah Watts,
Hugh Seymour Townsend,      Samuel Ellsworth Yoder,  80
Very respectfully,
WM. A. CAMPBELL,
Secretary of Faculty, Dept. of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Draper, it was voted to conlfer
the degree of Doctor of Medicine upon the persons named
in the foregoing communication, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Medicine and Surgery.
Regent Draper presented and read the following communication from the Secretary of the Hommoopathic Faculty:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen,: The following named students have complied
with the necessary requirements of the Honoeopathic Medical
College for graduation, and the Faculty respectfully recommend
them for the degree of Doctor of Medicine.
JAMES C. WOOD,
Secretary of the Faculty.


Sara Bartlett Armstrong, M. D.,
James Nelson Ayres, Ph. C.,
Elizabeth Stacy Carey,
Albert Britton Clark,
Roy Samuel Copeland,
William A. Cotton,
Sallie Maria Davis,
Denias Dawe,
Walter Newton Fowler,
Cora Yan Hill,


Charles Albert Macrum,
James Archie McLachlan,
Laban HIenry Shank,
Walter Longyor Slack,
Rollin Howard Stevens,
William Isaac Tyler,
Boyle Vance,
Annette Haseltine VWhteelock,
Jerome Bonaparte Wheelock,
Eli Cone Williams, A. B.,


Miranda Poyer Wiswell, B. L.


21


Regent Draper moved, that the degree of Doctor of
Medicine be conferred upon the persons named in the fore
going communication, in accordance with the recormmendation of the Faculty of the Homceopathic Medical College. The motion was carried.
Regent Draper moved, that George W. Whyte be ap



JUNE MEETING, 1889.


319


pointed Itnstructor in Metallurgy and Assaying, for one
year, at the salary of $900; David H. Browne, Instructor in
Qualitative Analysis, for one year, at the salary of $900;
and Professor John   W. Langley, of Pittsburgh, nonresident Lecturer on the Metallurgy of Steel, the compensation to be $150 for a course of ten lectures.
The motion of Regent Draper was carried by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair submitted the following    resolution,
which was adopted unanimously:
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be returned to Mr.
D. C. French, sculptor, for the cast of his statue of Gen. Cass,
presented by him to the University, and also to Mr. Philo Parsons for his kind services in procuring us the gift.
Regent Clark moved that the following persons be reappointed in the Chemical Laboratory for one year: William F. Edwards, accountant and dispensing clerk, at the
salary of $600; John D. Riker, B. S., Assistant in Physiological Chemistry, at the salary of $192; Charles P. Beckwith, B.S, Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry, at the salary
of $250; Ervin E. Ewell. Ph. C., Assistant in Qualitative
Analysis, at the salary of $192; Moses Gomberg, Assistant
in Organic Chemistry, at the salary of $192; David M.
Lichty, B. S., Assistant in Qualitative Chemistry, at the
salary of $17 a month.
The call vote on Regent Clark's motion resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark presented and read the following request
from the Professor of Botany:




320


JU32ESI7  U 'T.aIAIJifG, 188ss.


UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
BOTANICAL LABORATORY,
ANN ARBOR, MoIC!E, June 21, 1'39. 
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen.: With the approval of the members of the.Aud-c
iting Board, I respectfully request that the sale of the old microscopes hitherto used by classes In Botany be authorized, and that
new instruments of improved construction be purchased in their
stead, at a co-.t not exceeding that for which the old ones may be
sold.
I also ask that an appropriatioa of one hundred and fifty
dollars ($150) be made f)or thee purchase of instruments and tapparatus for use in the Botanicel Laboratory.
Respectfully subrmitted,
V. M. SPALDINCGL.
ReCent C1ark moved that the request of the Professor
of Botany be complied with, and that the Auditing Board
be authorized to sell the old microscopes as recommended,
and that new ones be purchased in their stead, at a cost
not exceeding the price for which the old ones were sold;
provided, however, that no new instlrument shall be purchased until the mioney to pay for it is provided by the
sale of an old one.
The motion of Regent Clark was carried by the unanimous vote of the Board.
On motion of Regent Clark, D. C. Worcester A. B.,
was appointed Assistant in Botany, for one year, at a salary of $750, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, ilett, Kiefer, Whhitman, Butterfield, and Iebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitrman read the following comm unl ication
from the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
GentleRien2: I have the honor to report to you that the
Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the A.rts,
acting on suggestion of the Professors of Engineering, decided




JUNE iMEETING, 1889.


321


that it is advisable and feasible to establish a course in Electrical
Engineering leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering, and recommend to you the establishment of
the accompanying course of study leading to the degree above
mentioned.
Respectfully submitted,
P. R. DE PONT, Registrar.
A COURSE OF STUDY IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
To obtain the recommendation of the Faculty for the degree of Bachelor of Science, for a course in Electrical Engineering, the student must
complete twenty-five Full Courses. The prescribed portion of this work is as
follows:
In Mathematics, Courses 1, 5, 11, 13, 10, (22 hours).
In French and German,four Full Courses to be selected by the student from
ail the Courses offered in these two languages wich he is qualified to pursue-  -    -     ----       -----— (20 hours).
In English, Course 1,                                 (2 " )
In General Physics, Courses 3, 10, 13, ---- --------- -- -— (13  )
In General Chemistry, Course 2, — (_ ---_- - ---------  3   "  )
In Analytical Chemistry, Course 3 ---------    --     ( 5  " )
In Drawing, Courses 1, 5,6, 9, ___ ---- -----  - -  -(11   "  )
In Civil Engineering, Course 1, ---— _ —( --- —--- ---- ( 2  ( )
In Mechanical Engineering, Courses 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, i2, ____ —  (17  "  )
In Electrical Engineering, four Courses, making at least -. --- — (1  "  )
From the other Courses offered the student must choose and complete
enough to make in all twenty-five Full Courses. He must also prepare a satisfactory thesis.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the degree of " Bachelor of Science in    Electrical Engineerinq," was established, and the course of      study   leading thereto    was
approved, as recommended by the Faculty.
On motion, the Board adjourned to 2 o'clock P. mI.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The following communication was presented by Regent Draper:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,           X
ANN ARBOR, June 24, 1889. |
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
A year ago I felt compelled, for reasons then stated, to ask
your, honorable body for a leave of absence. That was granted




322


JUNE A3EETING, 1889.


in the most generous manner; but I have come reluctantly to
the painful consciousness that I can live and work here no
longer; I therefore regretfully tender my resignation as Professor of Physiology in the University of Michigan, and seek an
honorable discharge.
Whether my lost health has had its recompense in any good
wrought here by ie, others may judge; but, (luring a seven
years' residence, there has surely been no more loyal member of
the University than I.
With the warmest appreciation of the consideration always
shown me by your honorable body,
I remain respectfully,
HENRY SEWALL,
Professor of Physiology, Univ. of Mich.
On motion of Regent Draper, the resignation of Professor Sewall was accepted.
Regent Draper presented the following communication from the Faculty of the Dental Department:
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY,  >
ANN ARBOR, June 2.5th, 1889.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
The following named persons have complied with all the
requirements, and are hereby recommended by the Faculty of
the Dental College, [subject to your approval] for the degree of
Doctor of Dental Surgery, viz.:


Albert Edward Anderson,
Robert Burns Avery,
Harry Fielden Briggs,
Frank Seldon Buckley, A. B,,
Oberlin College.
Charles Surnner Buttolph,
George Benton Chester,
George Edward Courtney,
Harry Goodrich Dunaven,
Louis Phillips Hall,
Frank Douglass Harding,
George Byron Hayes, A. B.,
IWilliams College.
Clarence Eugene Henderson,
William Carley Herbert,
George Arthur Holliday,
Horace Nathaniel Holmes,
Edy Randall Johnson,
Jacob William Jungmarn,


Oscar Calm Kerlin,
Reuben John Kirk,
Charles Shuter McIndoe,
Edward Cook Mills,


Frank E. Morey,
Charles Franklin Noyes,
Arthur Mowry Potter,
John Scott Rice, M. D.,
Bellevue Hospital Medical College.
Arthur Richardson,
Sumner Oliver Sawyer,
Henry Herman Schuhmann,
DeWitt Spalsbury,
Carroll Wesley Staples,
Griffith Pritchard Terry,
Frank Prescott Watson,
Joe Welch,
John H. Williams.         34
J. TAFT, Dean.




JUNE MEETING, 1889.


323


On motion of Regent Draper, it was voted to confer
the degree of Doctor of Dental Surgery upon the persons
named in the foregoing communication, in accordance
with the recommendation of the Dental Faculty.
On the recommendatiou of the Faculty of the De.
partment of Medicine and Surgery, Regent Draper moved
that all students who enter that Department after July 1,
1890, be required to pass four years of professional study
before graduation. The motion was carried.
John Wm. Keating, a senior student in the Medical
Department. having failed to receive the recommendation
of the Faculty for graduation, appealed to the Board to
graduate him regardless of the decision of the Faculty.
On motion of Regent Draper, Mr. Keating was notified
that it would be necessary for him to submit to a re-exanination, and receive the recommendation of the Faculty before the Board could order the degree conferred.
On motion of Regent Draper, Regent Whitman was
requested to act as the attorney of the Board in an action
brought by a patient in the Hommeopathic Hospital,
named L'Amoureaux, for damages claimed to have been
sustained by reason of incompetent nurses.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the legislative appropriation of $1,000, for the purchase in 1889 of instruments for the Department of Civil Engineering, was
placed in the hands of the Auditing Board for expenditure.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board went into Executive Session.
On motion of Regent Clark, the following appointments were made for one year: F. G. Novy, M. S., Instructor in Hygiene; A. F. Lange, A. M., Instructor in German
and Anglo Saxon; Wim. WV Campbell, B. S., Instructor in
Astronomy; Alexander Ziwet, 0. E., Instructor in Mathematics; Charles Puryear, A. M., Instructor in M5athematics; P. B. Marcou, Ph. D., Instructor in French; Joseph




324


JUNIE MEETING, 1889.


H. Drake, A. B., Instructor in Latin; Frank N. Cole, Ph.
D., Instructor in Mathematics; Lewis A. Rhoades, A. M.,
Instructor in German.
The call vote on the above appointments resulted as
follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett moved the appointment of Francis D.
Kelsey, Ph. D., as Professor of Latin, at the salary of
$2,200, servies to begin October 1st, 1889.
Regent Whitman moved that Charles W. Belser, A.
B., be appointed Instructor for one year in German and
French at the salary of $900.
The vote on these appointments was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays —Norne
Regent Clark submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That C. G. Taylor, superintendent of shops, be
regarded as a member of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, with the rank of Assistant Professor.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned to
9 o'clock to-morrow morning.
MORNING SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 9 o'clock A. m,-full Board
present.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
Executive Session.
Regent Blair submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That in the opinion of this Board Professors Mae



JUNE IEETING, 1889.


325


lean and Frothingham have placed themselves in such antagonism to the policy adopted by the Board, both by their language
and conduct, that their usefulness as professors in the Medical
Department of the University has been so far impaired that it is
not desirable that they should longer continue their connection
with the University.
Therefore, the President is requested to communicate to
Professors Maclean and Frothingham the willingness of this
Board to accept their resignation.
A call vote was taken on this resolution, which resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Treasurer Soule asked permission to open an account
with one of the Detroit Banks, where a small balance
could be kept for the convenience of the business of his
office. The Board decided that they would leave the matter entirely in the hands of the Treasurer.
The Medical Committee, to whom was referred (by
resolution of the Medical Faculty) the question of graduating Mr. Corydon L. Ford, 2d, as Doctor of Medicine, reported through their Chairmaan, Regent Draper, that the
committee do not recommend him for the degree of M. D.
Regent Whitman submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Buildings and Grounds
be, and are hereby authorized to procure and decide on designs
and specifications for the addition to the Chemical Laboratory;
and to approve contracts, etc., for said building; which contracts are then to be signed by the President and Secretary of
the Board, after which said Committee are directed and authorized to proceed with the work of construction; to enforce the
contract; to approve the monthly estimates for payment and
settlement of all contracts; and to control and do all things
that the Board could do, that are necessary to the completion of
the building ordered by the Board of Regents at this time.
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN, June 26, 1839.




326


JUNE MEETING, 1889.


The special committee of five appointed at the March
meeting to report upon the advisability of issuing a new
edition of the University Book, made a report recommending the preparation by persons connected with the University of a general catalogue. Details of the plan and
estimates of the cost were given.
Regent Whitman moved that the present committee
be retained, and that they be authorized to proceed with
the work on the plan outlined in the report, and if practicable to include a list of those who had been students, but
had not graduated, the Board undertaking to provide the
necessary appropriation, and the necessary clerical help.
The vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair, Chairman of the Law( Committee, to
whom was referred the recommendation of the Law Faculty, that the course in that Department be extended to
three years, reported that in the judgment of' the committee the time had not yet arrived to establish a three-year
course in the Law Department, and that the matter be referred back to the Law Faculty for further consideration.
The report of the Committee was adopted.
The Law Committee, to whom was referred the request of the Law Faculty that the degree of Bachelor of
Laws be conferred upon George W. Radford, as of the
class of 1875, recommended that the matter lie on the table.
The Committee on Buildings and Grounds and the
Medical Committee jointly, were requested to inspect the
various sites proposed for the new hospital, and report
their conclusions at the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Blair moved that Assistant Professor J. C.
Knowlton be made Marshall Professor of Law, at the salary




JUNE MEETING, 1889.


327


of $2,000, with the understanding that he shall continue
his present quiz work, and perform such other duties as
the Law Faculty shall assign to him; and also that the
salary of Assistant Librarian J. H. Vance be increased to
$900.
The vote on the above motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Willett moved that J.. Reihard be made
Assistant Professor of Zoology, at the salary of $1,600.
Regent Clark moved that Professor Spalding's salary
be made $2,200.
Both motions were passed by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett. Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, Miss Alice Hunt
was appointed, for the coming year, Assistant in Drawing,
at a salary of $350, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Committee on Buildings and Grounds were authorized to proceed at once to
complete the Engineering Laboratory building, and the
Auditing Board were authorized to expend the legislative
appropriation for the purchase of equipment for the Mechanical and Hygienic Laboratories. The vote was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Whitman moved that an appropriation of
$100 be made for the purpose of purchasing a microscope




328


JUNE,aEETING, 1889.


for the use of the Professor of Gaology. The vote re
sulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the matter of building a
fence around a part of the campus was placed in the
hands of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
On motion ot Regent Draper, and on the recommnendation of the Faculty of the Department of Mledicine and
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Medicine was conferred
upon Dr. William Allen Baker, as of the class of 1870, in
the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Clark, it was unanimously voted
that the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws be conferred
on Edward Howell Horton, Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of Kansas; and on Elisha Williams MeKinstry, Professor in the Hastings College of Law in the University of
California; and on Martin Luther D'Ooge, Professor of the
Greek Language and Literature in the University of
Michigan.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Wednesday, July
17th, 1889, at 10 o'clock A. M.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




ADJOURNED MEETING.
JULY, 1889.
----  ~ e --- — 
UNIVERSITY OF MNICHI-IlGAN,  )
ANN ARBORI, July 17, 1889. o
The Board of Regents assembled in the room of the
President at 10 o'clock A. -xI.
Present-Regents Blair, Draper, Cla(rk, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Absent-None.
Comimunications which had reached the President
were referred to appropriate colmmittees of the Board.
On motion of IRegent Buttterield, the minutes of the
last meeting were approved as printed.
On motion of Rlegent Draper, tlhe estimate of WVilliam Biggs, presented by the Delntal Faculty, Folr the erection of an addition to the Dental Bluildlin., was referred
to the Colmmittee onl Buildings and Grounds, with power
to act.
On motion of Regent Willett., the suin. of $300 was
appropriated and placed at the disposal of the Library
Committee of the Faculty, for the purpose of completing
the new Catalogue of Books, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Butterfield submitted the followintg resolution,
which was unanimously adopted'




ADJO UR NED  f  TI57T, N(s, /,(s,


]Re.solvedl, That we gratefully aceept,in behalf of tile University, the portrai t of Dr. Dunster, and ldirect tlhat the same be 11lun
in the art gallery, and that the letter of Prof. Martin in reference
thereto be spread on tile recorlls of this Bgoard in connection with
tllis  resolution.
The letter referred to ill tlie Ilaove resolution is as follows 
ANN  A. ' o), MiI(I( AN, July 1, 1889.
To the Hionolable, the lBoardl of Regenlts:
At tle meeting of the alumniii of tlhe NMedical Department
of Michigaln University, held June 26(, 1889, funds were raised
for the purpose of purchasing a portrait of the late Prof. E. S.
Dunster. Said portrait has been procured and paid for, and the
alumni desire to present it to the University, to be hung in the
Art Gallery (with appropriate tablet), as a token of their affectionate regard and high esteem   for Prof. Dunster, whose
scholarship, courteous manners, and superior qualities as a
teacher and a man were so well known; they respectfully ask
the Honorable Board of Regents to accept tile gift in behalf of
the University of Michigan.
Very respectfully,
J. N. MARtTIN,
Committee in charge.
Regent Draper, submitted thle follovwing' resolutionl
which was, on a call vote, adcopted nllanimolusly.
Resolved, That a chair to be known as the Chair of Ophlthalmology, Otology, and Ped(ology be, andl the same is hereby
established in tihe Homceopathic Medical College.
On motion of IRegent Draper, the B<oard went into
Executive Sessionl
Regent Clark presented and read the resigmiation of
Charles NI. Gayley, Assistant lrofessor of Elnglish and
Rhetoric, which was accepted.
On motion of Regent Clark, tile title of Associate
Professor A. IH. Pattengill was changed to Professor of
Greek.
Regent Draper presented the following, recoln-mmendations of the Medical Comlmittee, viz.: That the lChairs of




ADJO URNVED AIJ1TINr, /).s.


M3I1


Pathology and Histology obe combined undier Dr.I.Gibbes,
and that Dr. G. C. Huber be appointed Instructor in Histology with tlhe salary of, $900, and thlat the Executive
Committee be auth)orized to appoint an additional Assistant to the Chair, at the salary of' $300.
A call vote on the above recommendllations resulted
as follows 
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whlitman, Butterfield, antd Hebardl.
Nays-None.
On1 m(otion of' ilerent Wil le tt the Boaild took a, recess
unltil 2 ocldock P. Al.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The resignlation of' DrI. It. I Alrn(lt, P'rof'esor of Mlateria Medica in tlie 1tIolmeopatiic Medical College, was
received and accepted.
Regent I)raper submlitted the followinl recommnlteda
tions f'rom tile IIomx()opathic Medical Faculty:
NIV  lIIS'ITY ()1'  1C[l(;l(A\N, l
ANN  Ai Ol, I July  17Lt, l889). 
To the Honorable Board of legents:
Gentlenmen. —The Faculty of tlle Ho()tnopaltllic Delplrtlllen t
respectfully recoiimmend tlhe following:
1. That Prof. D. A. AMcLTcllan be transferre(d fronl tihe
Clhair of Tlleory antl Practice of Medicine to tlhe Chtir of O(l)pithlalmology, Otology and Ptedology.
2. That Prof. Chas. Gatehell, M.. D., of Chicago, be tmtade
Professor of the Theory and Practice of NMeliicile, t at salary of
$2,000 per year.
3. That Chas. S. Mack,al. D., of Clhicag'o, e  ade Professor of Materia Medica and( Therapleuties, vice Prof. H. IR
Arndt, resignled, at a salary; of p2,(')() iper year.
1H. L. OI8ETZ, Dean.




332


A DJO URNED MEETING, 18389.


On motion of Regent Draper, the recommendations of
the Holnmopathic Medical Faculty were adopted by the
following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On tmotion of Regent Draper, Dr. C. Georg was appointed Instructor in Materia Medica and Therapeutics,
for one year, it being lunderstood that lhe is to do such
work as may be assigned to him     by the Faculty, at
the salary of $900.
The vote on this motion was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebardo
Nays-None.
Paul C. Freer, Ph.D., MA D.,was appointed Lecturer on
General Chemistry, for one year, at the salary of $2,000,
by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper, Chairmian of the Medical Committee,
presented and read the letter of resignation of Dr. Geo.
E. Frothilngham  Professor of Materia Medcica and Ophthalmology, and that of Dr. Donald Maclean, Professor of
Surgery and Clini(cal Surgery in the Medical Department,
which were accepted by a fuill vote of the Board.
Regent Kiefer suilmitted the following resolution,
whichi was unanimously adopted:
i1esolved, That in accepting tle resignations of Professors
Maclean and Frothilngham the Board of Regents expresses its
appreciation of their scientific attainments, and of the ability
and skill with which they have performed the duties pertaining
to their respective Chairs,




ADJOURNEID MEE;TING, 1889.


333


On motion of Regent Willett, the mnatter of electric
lighting and water supply was referred to Regent Whitman,
to report at the October meeting of the Board.
Regent Draper moved that the following appointments be made in the Medical Department: Dr. C. B.
Nancrede, Professor of Surgery and Clinical Surgery, at
the salary of $2,000; Flenmming Carrow, M. D., Professor
of Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery, and Clinical Ophthalmology, at the salary of $2,000; William H-. Howell, Ph.D.,
Lecturer on Physiology, for one year, at the salary of
$2,000; and that these gentlemen be required to live in
Ann Arbor. Also, that Dr. James N. Martin be reappointed
Acting Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women
and Children, for one year, at the salary of $2,000.
A call vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Clark moved that T. C. Trueblood be appointed Assistant Professor of Elocution in the Literary
Department, at the salary of $1,600, and that an additional compensation of $500 be paid him for services to be
rendered in the Law Department.
The following is the call vote on this motion:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Clark, the President was requested to transmit the thanks of the Board to the following gentlemen for valuable gifts to the Department of
Mechanical Engineering: Frederick M. Wheeler, of New
York City; Messrs. Hayden & Derby, of Brooklyn, N. Y.,
The Silsby Manufacturing Co., of Seneca Falls, N. Y.; and(
Rumsey & Co., of Seneca Falls, N. Y.




334


ADJOURNED MEETING, 188s9.


On motion of Regent Whitman, Sec. 3, of Chapter
VIII. of the By-Laws of the University, was amended to
read as follows:
SEc. 3. There shall be elected by the Board of Regents for
each Department or School, a Dean, whose duty it shall be to
preside at the meetings of the Faculty, in the absence of the
President of the University, and to perform such other duties as
shall be prescribed by the general rules and by the regulations
of the Department.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Medical Committee were charged with the duty of revising the courses of
instruction in the Medical Department.
Regent Draper moved, that James G. Lynds be appointed Assistant to the Chair of Obstetrics, ifor one year,
at the salary of $100.
Regent Butterfield moved that Frank N. Cole, Ph.D.,
be appointed Acting Assistant Professor of Mathematics,
for one year, at the salary of $1,200.
Regent Blair moved that the salary of Charles K.
McGee be $900, with the title of Instructor in General
Chemistry.
Regent Clark moved, that the salary of Albert A.
Stanley, Professor of Music, be increased to $1,600. And
that Assistant Professor Otis C. Johnson be made Professor of Applied Chemistry, with the salary of $2,200.
A call vote was taken on the several motions above,
which resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Willett, the appointment of Assistants in the Dental Department was referred to the Executive Committee.




ADJO URNED AIFETING, 18809.         335
()On motion of' Regent Blair, tle Committee on Buildings and Grounds, together with Regent Kiefer and Dr.
Nancrede, were authorized to visit Hospitals at the East
with the view of embodying their best features in the
construction of the one we are about to build.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
JAMES 1-. WADE,
Secretary.




SPECIAL MEETING.
SEPTEMBER, 1889.
UNIVERSITY OF MVICHIGAN,       t
September 19, 1889. j
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
10 o'clock A. I.
Present- IRegents Blair, (Clark, Whitman, Butterfield,
and Ilebard.
On motion of' ReIeent Clark, the minutes of the last
meeting were approved as printed.
The President presented the followingo report of the
Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee beg leave to make the following
report:
They met on July 30th, and took the following action 
11 accordlance with the recommendlation of the Medical
Committee the title oivenl to Professor Gibbes att the last meeting
of the Board, of Professor of Pathology and Histology, was
changed to Professor of Pathology, anil the title given to Dr. W.
H. Howell, of Lecturer on Physiology, was changed to Lecturer
on Physiology and Histology; Dr. Win. A. Campbell was
appointed Instructor in Anatomy for the coming year, with the
understanding that for discharging the duties of Instructor,
Assistant Demlonstrator of Anatomy, and Secretary of the
Faculty hle is to receive i.31,200. It was decided that an Assistant
should be appointed t tthe Professor of Pathology at a salary not
to exceed S300.
On the recoimnendation of the Hospital Coommittee, the
following appointments on the staff of the University Hospital
were made: B. B. Rowe, M. D., Resident Physician, salary,




338


SPECIAL MEETI1NG, 1889


$500; G. G. Schneider, M. D., Wardmaster, salary, $300; Nurse
in ward, P. Sculley, $300; Ward-mistress, Esther G.Willoughby,
M. D., $300; Nurse, Mary A. Kendall, $200.
Joseph Clark was reappointed Steward of the Hospitals
for one year, salary $1,000 and the board of his family.
Louis P. Hall, D. D.S., was appointed Assistant to Dr. Watling for the coming year, salary $300.
Julius O. Schlotterbeck, Assistant in Pharmnacognosy, was
appointed also to teach Materia Mledica to the Pharmacy students
for the year to come, his salary for all his services to be $300. Dr.
Vaughan was relieved of the duty of teaching Materia Medica
in the School of Pharmacy.
August 10th they appointed James Hayden Tufts, A. B.,
B. D., Instructor in Philosophy, for one year, at the salary of $900.
It was voted to call a meeting of the Board for Sept. 17th, at
10 A. M., especially to consider the business of the new hospital.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
ROGER W. BUTTERFIELD,
CHAS.. R. WHITMAN.
The foregoing report of the Executive Committee'was
adopted by a unanimous vote.
On imotion of Regent Clark the resignation of Charles
Puryear, Instructor in Mathematics, was accepted.
On motion of Regenlt Clark, George H-empil A. B.,
was appointed Assistant Professor of Englishl for one year,
at the salary of $1600; the salary to begin when he takes lip
the work. The appointment was lmade by the full vote of
the Board.
David H. Browne, Ph. B., Instructor in Quantitative
Analysis, presented his resignation, which was, on motion
of Regent Whitman, accepted.
On motion of Regent Whitman, Frank C. Smith, B. S.,
was appointed Instructor in Quantitative Analysis, for
one year, at the salary of $900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Clark, Whitman, Butterfield, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.




SPECIAL MEETING, 1889.


339


On motion of Regent Clark, Fred C. Hicks, A. M.,
was appointed Assistant in Political Economy, without
salary.
On motion of Regent Clark, George W. Patterson,
A. B., S. B., was appointed Instructor in Electrical Engineering, for one year, at the salary of $900, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Clark, Whitman, Butterfield, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Professor of
Physics was allowed to appoint an assistant, at a salary not
to exceed $150.
Regent Blair, Chairman of the Law Committee, submitted the following resoluiton, which was adopted:
Resolved, That it is hereby made a part of the duties of the
Law Librarian to render such assistance as may be required by
the Law Faculty, to the Dean of the Law Department, in the
matter of the correspondence of that Department, and to the
Law Faculty in connection with the Moot Court Cases.
Regent Blair submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That Hon. Henry B. Brown, LL. D., be reappointed Lecturer on Admiralty Law, in the Law Department,
for the year 1889-90, at a salary of $350.
The vote on Regent Blair's resolution was as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Clark, Whitman, Butterfield, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board took a recess
until 2 o'clock P. in.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 2 o'clock p. M., the full
Board present.




340


SPECIAL MEETING, 1889.


The Board listened to the report of the Special Committee who were appointed to visit hospitals at the East
with the view of embodying their best features in the construction of the one we are about to build. Dr. V. C.
Vaughan presented the report of the Committee.
On motion of Regent Kiefer the report of this Committee, together with the matter of procuring proper plans
and specifications for the new hospital building, was referred to the Committee on Buildings and Grounds and
the Medical Committee jointly, and Drs. Vaughan, Nancrede, and Obetz.
Regent Clark moved that Dr. Obetz be invited to present his views in regard to a site for the new hospital. The
motion was carried, and Dr. Obetz, being present, addressed
the Board.
On motion of Regent Whitman, the Board went into
Executive Session.
The business of the open session was afterward resumed.
Dr. Herdman addressed the Board in relation to his
professorial work.
On motion of Regent Draper, C. G. Darling, M. D.,
was appointed Assistant to the Chair of Surgery and
Clinical Surgery for one year, at the salary of $100.
A call vote on this motion resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Blair submitted the following resolution,which
was carried by the full vote of the Board:
Resolved, That in the opinion of this' Board it is not expedient to locate the new Hospital upon the Campus.
On motion of Regent Whitman, an appropriation of
$25 was made for the purchase of a pneumatic apparatus




SPECIAL MEElIING, 1889.


341


for the use of Dr. Georg, to illustrate the subject of Physical Therapeutics.
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Butterfield, the Auditing Board
were instructed to pay the expense incurred by Regent
Kiefer, amounting to $20, in procuring the translation
from the German and the copying of an article on the best
location for hospitals.
A call vote on the question was unanimous.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Auditing Board were
authorized to employ an Assistant in the Dental Department, for one year, at a salary of $100.
A call vote resulted as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Whitman the Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Finance Committee were
requested to cooperate with the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds in examining sites for the new hospital, and
report their conclusions to the next meeting of the Board.
Regent Whitman moved that the traveling expenses
of Dr. Vaughan, when visiting hospitals at the East at the
request of the Board, be paid.
The motion was carried, as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Willett, Kiefer, Whitman, Butterfield, and Hebardo
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board adjourned to
October 15, 1889.
JAMES H. WADE,
Secretary.




REGULAR MEETING.
OCTOBER 15, 1889.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
October 15, 1889. J
The Board assembled in the room of the President at
2 o'clock P. M.
Present-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, and Hebard.
Absent-Regents Willett and Butterfield.
The President stated that a number of papers and
communications had reached him since the last meeting
of the Board, which h'e would, if there was no objection,
place in the hands of the appropriate coemmittees of the
Board. There being no objection the papers took that
course.
On motion of Regent Blair, the Board went into Executive Session.
Mr. Braun, representing the Washtenaw County Agricultural Society, by permission, addressed the Board in
relation to the purchase of the Fair Grounds for a Hospital site.
Regent Blair moved that the Committee on Buildings
and Grounds be authorized to purchase for a Hospital site
the land, near Catherine street, upon which Professor Pattengill had secured options, and that the Colmmittee secure
such adjoining land as in their judgment would be desirable, and can be bought at reasonable prices.




344


OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


A call vote being taken on the motion, it was carried
unanimously.
On motion of Regent Blair, it was unanimously voted
that the Committee on Buildings and Grounds be requested
to procure plans for a complete Hospital Building, and to
build such part of the whole as the appropriation will admit; that specifications be made so as to provide 40 beds
for the Homceopathic Department, and at least 64 beds for
the Department of Medicine and Surgery; and also that
the relative size of the administrative buildings be 2400
feet for the Homceopathic Department and 3600 feet for
the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Clark, the matter of water supply on the campus was placed in the hands of the Committee on Buildings and Grounds, with power to act; they
were also requested to consider the question of providing
better water closets.
The President submitted the report of the Executive
Committee, as follows:
The Executive Committee beg leave respectfully to report
that in September in accordance with previous instructions from
the Board they appointed Fred N. Scott, Ph. D., Instructor in
English for one year, and Mellen W. Haskell, Ph. D.,
Instructor in Mathematics for the same period; and also
that owing to the great influx of students into the classes in
Mathematics they deemed it necessary to appoint on Oct. 5th,
W. J. Hussey, B. S., a graduate of this University, Instructor in
Mathematics for the coming year at the salary of $900.
Owing to the large number of students in the Engineering
Laboratory, they also at the same date authorized the employment of another skilled mechanic in that Laboratory.
JAMES B. ANGELL,
AUSTIN BLAIR,
CHAS. R. WHITMAN.
The report of the Executive Committee was adopted
by the following vote:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


345


Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.
The following communication was read by Regent
Clark:
ANN ARBOR, MICH., Oct. 14, 1889.
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Gentlemen: I beg to ask that the subject of Applied Chemistry be dropped from the title under which I serve the University, so that this shall read "Professor of Organic Chemistry
and of Pharmacy," etc. The promotion of Professor Johnson
(Minutes, 1889, p. 334), enables me to make this request.
Respectfully,
ALBERT B. PRESCOTT.
On motion of Regent Clark, the request of Dr. Prescott, relating to change of title, was granted.
On motion of Regent Draper, Frank A. Waples, B. S.,
was appointed Assistant in Physiology, for one year, at
the salary of $300, by the following vote:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.
Regent Draper moved, that Miss Vida A. Latham be
appointed Assistant in Pathology, for one year, at the salary of $300. The appointment was made as follows:
Ayes-Regents Blair, Draper, Clark, Kiefer, Whitman, and
Hebard.
Nays-None.
On motion of Regent Draper, the legislative appropriation of $7,500 for the year 1889, for the purchase of
books, was divided as follows: To the General Library,
$5,000; to the Law Library, $1,500; and to the Medical
Library, $1,000.
Regent Blair submitted the following reselution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That this Board will confer the degree of Master




346


OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


of Laws on any graduate of the Department of Law who pursues
the study of Law in this University for one year after graduation,
and who completes to the satisfaction of the Law Faculty such a
course of study as may be required; and that the privilege thus
extended to graduates of the Law Department of this University
is also extended to graduates of other Law Schools, who can satisfy the Faculty of the Department of Law that the course of
study for which they obtained their degrees were equivalent to
the course of study required for the corresponding degree at the
Law Department of this University.
At the request of the Law Faculty, and on motion of
Regent Clark, Professor Thomas M. Cooley, (now on leave
of absence), was requested to give a course of 10 lectures
on Inter-State Commerce Law, to advanced law students.
On motion of Regent Clark, the Board took a recess
to 7 o'clock P. i.
EVENING SESSION.
The Board re-assembled at 7 o'clock P. BI.,-full Board
present, except Regent Willett.
The President submitted his Annual Report which
was adopted. It was ordered that it be printed in the
minutes, and that the usual number of copies be provided
for the use of the Board and the University.
THE PRESIDENT'S REPORT.
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents:
I present you herewith my Annual Report for the year
ending September 30th, 1889.
The following   changes have been made in the
Faculties:
At the meeting of the Board in October, 1888, Albert
A. Stanley was elected Professor of Music; N. S. Hoff,
D. D. S., who had been appointed temporarily, was appointed permanently Assistant Professor of Practical Dentistry; and J. N. Martin, M. D., was appointed Acting




OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


347


Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children in the Department of Medicine and Surgery (at first
for one semester and afterwards, in December, for the
whole year).
In December, A. B. Stevens, Ph. C., received the permanent appointment of Instructor in Pharmacy.
In April, 1889, John Dewey, Ph. D., was elected
Professor of Philosophy in place of Professor George S.
Morris, deceased.
In June, Francis L. Kelsey, Ph. D., was appointed
Professor of the Latin Language and Literature, J. E. Reighard, Ph. B., Assistant Professor of Zoology, Jerome C.
Knowlton, A. B., Marshall Professor of Law, and John
W. Langley, S, B., Non-resident Lecturer on the Metallurgy of Steel.
The following appointments for one year were made:
George W. Whyte, B. S., Instructor in Metallurgy and
Assaying; David H. Browne, Instructor in Qualitative
Analysis; F. G. Novy, M. S., Instructor in HIygiene; A.
F. Lange, A. M., Instructor in German and Anglo-Saxon;
Wm. W. Campbell, B. S., Instructor in Astronomy; Alexander Ziwet, C. E., Instructor in Mathematics; P. B.
Maroou, Ph. D., Instructor in French; Joseph H. Drake,
A. B., Instructor in Latin; Frank N. Cole, Ph. D., Instructor, and afterwards (in July) Acting Assistant Professor
of Mathematics; Lewis A. Rhoades, A. M., Instructor in
German: Charles W. Belser, A. B.. Instructor in German
and French.
It was also voted that C. G. Taylor, B. S., Superintendent of Shops, should be deemed a member of the Faculty
of the Literary Department with the rank of Assistant
Professor.
At the July meeting Professors Frothingham and Maclean tendered their resignations which were accepted.
The vacancies thus caused were filled by the election of
C. B. Nancrede, M. D., as Professor of Surgery and Clinical Surgery, and of Flemming Carrow, M. D., as Professor




348


OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


of Ophthalmic and Aural Surgery, and Clinical Ophthalmology. Paul C. Freer, Ph. D., M. D., was chosen Lecturer on General Chemistry in the Literary and Medical
Departments, and William H. Howell, Ph. D., Lecturer
on Physiology and Histology in the same Departments.
The following appointments to the Homoeopathic Faculty
were made: Charles Gatchell, M. D., Professor of the
Theory and Practice of Medicine, Charles S. Mack, A. B.,
M. D., Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics in
the place of Dr. Arndt, resigned, and D. A. McLachlan,
M. D., was transferred from the chair of Theory and Practice to that of Ophthalmology, Otology and Paedology. The
title of A. H. Pattengill, A. M., was changed from Associate
Professor to Professor of Greek, and that of Otis C. Johnson, A. M., from Assistant Professor to Professor of Applied Chemistry. T.C.Trueblood, A.M.,was appointed Assistant Professor of Elocution, and Charles K. McGee, A. B.,
Instructor in General Chemistry. The following appointments for one year were made: Dr. James N. Martin,
Acting Professor of Obstetrics and Diseases of Women
and Children, Dr. C. Georg, Instructor in Materia Medica
and Therapeutics, G.O.Huber,M.D.,Instructor in Histology.
In the month of September the following appointments for one year were made: Hon. H. B. Brown, LL. D.,
Lecturer on Admiralty in the Law Department; George
Hempl, A. M., Acting Assistant Professor of English and
Rhetoric; Fred N. Scott, Ph. D., Instructor in English;
James H. Tufts, A. B., B. D., Instructor in Philosophy;
Mellen W. Ilaskell, Ph. D., Instructor in Mathematics;
Frank C. Smith, B. S., Instructor in Quantitative Analysis; George W. Patterson, A. B., S. B., Instructor in Electrical Engineering; F. C. Hicks,A.M., Assistant in Political
Economy; Wm. A. Campbell. M. D., Instructor in Anatomy.
Elmer Sanford, B. S., Instructor in Physiology, died
on February 15, 1889, after a brief illness. Both as a
student and as a teacher his work had awakened in the




OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


349


minds of those most familiar with it high expectations of
his success in science. The impression made by his talent
was heightened by his great modesty, simplicity of character, and devotion to duty.
The University has rarely, if ever, been called to a
more serious loss than it sustained in the death on March
23, 1889, of George Sylvester Morris, Ph. D., Professor of
Philosophy. He was appointed Professor of Modern Languages in 1870, and held that position until 1879, when he
resigned to take a lectureship in philosophy in the Johns
Hopkins University. In 1884 he was elected to the chair
of philosophy in this University, and filled it until his
death.
In both chairs he taught with eminent success. His
learning in several fields was ample, in philosophy it may
be regarded as pre-eminent. By his writings he was well
and favorably known to scholars in philosophy on both
sides of the Atlantic. As a teacher he impressed his
pupils profoundly by his rich culture, the strength and
elevation of his character, his reverent devotion to truth,
and the inspiring ethical and religious spirit of all his
philosophic thinking. He was cut down suddenly in the
very prime of his strength, while large plans were yet
unexecuted. We had hoped, as he had, that many years of
his ripest and most fruitful work were before him. His
name and his memory will ever be cherished as one of the
choicest possessions of the University.
John W. Langley, S. B., M. D., Professor of General
Chemistry and Metallurgy, who has been a member of the
Literary and Medical Faculties for about fifteen years, has
resigned his office to engage in other pursuits in Pittsburg,
Pa. -Imbued as he is with the true scientific spirit, he has
by his skill as a chemist, a metallurgist, and a lecturer
rendered most valuable service to the University. Our
regret at his resignation is mitigated by the fact that he
is to give a brief course of lectures here on the metallurgy of steel.




350


OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


Henry Sewall, Ph. D., M. D., has been compelled by
ill health to resign the chair of physiology, which he had
filled for seven years.  Bringing the best methods of
modern research and exposition to his work, he has by the
organization of the Physiological Laboratory and by his
lucid instruction awakened such an interest in his department that we greatly regret his resignation.
The Board of Regents have expressed in fitting terms
the appreciation which they and all connected with the
University have of the ability, learning and professional
skill of Professors Frothingham  and Maclean, who have
for many years been in the service of this institution.
The following degrees have been conferred:
DEGREES ON EXAMINATION.
Bachelor of Letters-   --                           15
Bachelor of Science (course in Biology) --- —. --. 
Bachelor of Science (in Mining Engineering)-        4
Bachelor of Science (in Mechanical Engineering) —___-.  6
Bachelor of Science (in Civil Engineering)          10
Bachelor of Science (in General Science) 7-         7
Bachelor of Philosophy ------     _                 28
Bachelor of Arts                    -.-            36
Master of Letters-.- --                  -         1
Master of Science --- —-        ------               2
Master of Arts --- --. ---        --—....-  5
Doctor of Science                      --           1
Doctor of Philosophy  ---    -. ---      ----.      2
Doctor of Medicine (Department of Medicine and Surgery)-  82
Bachelor of Laws -  —. --... --- —. —         148
Pharmaceutical Chemist             ---—.          41
Doctor of Medicine (Homoeopathic Medical College) ----  21
Doctor of Dental Surgery                           35
445
HONORARY DEGREE.
Doctor of Laws —  --------     ---. — -      3
448
The attendance of students was as follows:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1889,               351
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.
Resident Graduates --—...... —.......... ---. —... 41
Graduates studying in absentia — --   -.      24
Candidates for a Degree -. --                 631
Students not Candidates for a Degree ----  -   130 - 826
DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Resident Graduates-          -                 5
Third Year Students                  — 89
Second Year Students_                -        128
First Year Students-.-                        149 - 371
DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
Seniors-  --      —. ----. --  ------         149
Juniors.......... —.-...-.......j ---.. 244
Special Students —..     8 - 401
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
Resident Graduates  -- -,                      1
Second Year Students-.-  --.-.           48
First Year Students --    -    --   —..      57 - 106
HOM(EOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.
Students-Total in College                           73
COLLEGE OF DENTAL SURGERY.
Students-Total in College. ---G...s      108
Total in the University —  —.__-         1885
The following statement shows the increase in numbers since 1884-5.
TOTAL ATTENDANCE.
In 1884-5 —                       --     1285
In 1885-6 -* —. —..        1391
In 1886-7.-          --                 1562
In 1887-8- — 1667
In 1888-9. —  -    ---                 1885
The attendance this last year was jnst 600 larger,
(46.7 per cent.) than it was four years ago. The gain last
year over the preceding year by Departments was follows:
Literary, 79; Medical, 61; Law, 59; Pharmacy, 16; Den



OCTOBER MEETING, 1888.


tal, 4; the Honoeopathic College lost one; total gain, 218.
Of candidates for higher degrees in the Literary Department the number has risen from 59 last year to 65 this
year.
At the time of the closing of this Report it is clear
that during the year just beginning the attendance will
be much larger than ever before, and will considerably
exceed 2000.
The number of women in attendance during the last
two years was as follows:
1857-8  1888-9
Department of Literature, Science and the Arts --- 194  207
Department of Medicine and Surgery —. —   52     59
Department of Law-                         2       3
School of Pharmady-. —.- -- --            2       3
Honoceopathic Medical College - -    - -   28     23
College of Dental Surgery-..               6       6
284    301
The proportion of women is smaller by nearly one
per cent. than it was last year. In 1887-8 they formed
sixteen and nine-tenths of the whole body of students; in
1888-9 not quite sixteen per cent. In the Literary Department they number twenty-five per cent. of the whole,
which is the same proportion as in 1886-7 and seven-tenths
of one per cent. less than in 1887-8. Of the 65 candidates
for higher degrees 13 were women.
The number of schools with which we have established the " diploma relation " continues to increase. Last
year there were 58. This year there are 71, of which 46 are
in Michigan; of those in other states, 19 are in Illinois, 3
in Minnesota, and one each in Pennsylvania, Ohio, and
Indiana. Several of the State Universities have imitated
our example in setting up this kind of connection with the
schools in their vicinity to their own great advantage and
to the advantage of the schools. No other system of
coaperation of school and university has been found,
which brings them into so harmonious relations and which




OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


353


impresses both so deeply with the fruitful truth that their
interests are in large part identical, and that in order to
discharge their full duty to the public they must work
heartily together.
We have received this year one gift of peculiar interest and value. Mrs. Elisha Jones has placed in the hands
of the Regents as trustees the sum of ten thousand dollars for the endowment of one or more classical fellowships. The holder of the fellowship is to receive five hundred dollars a year. He is to be appointed by a Board of
Examiners, consisting of the President of the University,
the Senior Professor of Greek, the Senior Professor of
Latin, and two other Professors of the Academic Faculty,
to be chosen by the above named appointees. To be eligible to the fellowship the student must have been for three
semesters a member of the Academic Department, must
have made distinguished proficiency in Greek and Latin,
and must be a Bachelor of Arts of not more than two
years standing. When appointed he must make the Greek
and Latin languages and literatures his chief subjects of
study. The fellowship is tenable by one person for only
two years. The second year may, if the Board of Examiners permit, be spent in study at Athens or Rome. An
appointment to the fellowship has already been made.
We prize this gift by Mrs. Jones, because it is intended by her as a memorial of her husband, who gave so
large a part of his life to the service of the University in
instruction in the classics, because it will furnish such encouragement to advanced study of the ancient languages
and literatures, and because as the first instance of the
endowment of a fellowship in this University it may be
reasonably expected to stimulate other large-hearted donors to endow fellowships. The Regents desire it to be
understood, that as in this case they will whenever desired
as trustees accept funds for the endowment of scholarships, fellowships, professorships or for aiding the University in any manner, and keep such funds forever entirely




354


OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


separate from all other funds of the University, and invest
them to the best of their ability, and administer them so
as to accomplish the objects of the donors.
It is a great mistake to suppose that we have not sore
need of private benefactions with which to enlarge the
usefulness of the University. There is not a penny at our
disposal for the aid in any way of a poor student, however
needy and meritorious he may be. The endowment of
some of our professorships, the establishment of a fund
for the more rapid increase of our libraries, the purchase
of a playground, the erection of a gymnasium, any or all
these modes of assistance would be most welcome to us
and most suitable for private beneficence. Our work so
grows upon our hands, the demands upon our resources so
rapidly multiply, we are now cramped at so many points
that notwithstanding the great and continued generosity
of the state, we cannot refrain from expressing the hope
that our alumni and other generous men and women will
from time to time supplement the legislative appropriations by donations for special purposes, as some of them
have already done.
The work of the various Departments has gone on
smoothly and successfully during the year. The unprecedented number of new students, who have joined us, about
four hundred, somewhat unduly crowded the sections in
the more elementary studies, especially those beginning
the modern languages and history. We have slightly increased the teaching force for the modern languages. It is
certain that we must soon add to our corps of instructors.
The completion of the Engineering Laboratory will now
enable us to handle more efficiently the increasing number of engineering students. But the rooms assigned to
the study of civil engineering in the south wing are inadequate to the proper accommodation of the large classes
crowded into them. We must soon find ample space for
them somewhere. The great interest in the application
of electricity to the arts of life has led us to establish a spec



OCTOBER MEETING, 1889.


355


ific course in electrical engineering, as most of the scientific schools in the country have done. The demand for
young men well trained in this branch is rapidly increasing, and we have regarded it as our duty to meet the call
which is made on us for thorough instruction in it.
We have also decided to make a change of some importance in the requirements for admission. We have
long desired to require some scientific training of students
entering on the courses leading to the degrees of A. B.
and Ph. B. We have delayed asking it, partly because
some schools were ill-prepared to give the necessary instruction in science, and partly because it was thought
difficult, if not impossible, for some schools which were
prepared to teach elementary science to add it to the instruction we asked in other branches without unduly
lengthening the period of preparatory study. But we
believe the time has arrived when by slight concessions
on our part in certain requirements and by some revision
of the school courses, the result can be accomplished.
Accordingly students entering as candidates for A. B. or
Ph. B. next year will be asked to present preparation in
physics and botany. Some of the advantages anticipated
from this change are the following: The classical students
will have had the disciplinary advantage of a little scientific training. They will be better fitted to make wisely
their elections between linguistic and scientific studies,
when the time for election comes. The elementary teaching of physics and botany can be dropped from the collegiate course, since the candidates for the degrees of B.
S. and B. L. are already required to have the preparation
in those branches now demanded of the students of Latin
and Greek. The classical courses will be made more popular in the schools. Many persons object to them now,
because they provide no instruction in science. For these
reasons we regard the modification of our requirements
as a marked improvement.
We have also altered the requirements for admission



